Officium TristeOfficium Triste is a death-doom band from Rotterdam, The Netherlands. They refer to their style often as "Rotterdoom". It is largely inspired by bands like My Dying Bride and early Anathema, but the last album is slower and more melodic. The vocals are mostly intelligible death grunts but with occasional clean vocals. Their home-venue is Baroeg in Rotterdam.The roots of Officium Triste go back to the early 1990s when Martin and Johan decided to form a metal band. The name of this band was Reïncremated. In the spring of 1994, the last line-up of this band decided to quit and reform under a new moniker with a different musical approach.The new moniker became Officium Triste. Musically, they started to compose heavy and melodic doom metal. The start of Officium Triste went pretty smooth and new songs were composed quickly. This resulted in the decision to record a demo, which was recorded at the Elektra in Sliedrecht on the 4th and 5 August 1994. The recordings were low-budget and made using a 4-track recorder.This recording session resulted in the "Demo '94" which included three songs and an intro. The reactions from the underground scene were positive and eventually, all 200 copies were sold out. The music on this demo resulted in a deal with a label called Fuck You Records for a 7" EP. Officium Triste entered the Excess studio in Rotterdam on 19 and 20 February 1995 to record two new songs and an intro. Due to supposed lack of money the label did nothing. After a delay of a year, the band decided to release the EP by themselves. Vocalist Pim started Weeping Willow Records and released the EP "Mountains Of Depressiveness" pressed on red vinyl limited to 500 copies in the summer of 1996. In the meantime, during the summer of 1995, bass player Maarten quit the band and was replaced by Johan. Although the recordings were over a year old by the time they were released, the reactions within the scene were very good. This resulted in a deal with Dutch underground label Teutonic Existence Records for an album. The band entered Excess studio again to record the CD in December 1996. They recorded five new songs and re-recorded two songs from the demo and one from the EP in slightly different versions. In February 1997, the recording sessions were finished. The album "Ne Vivam" was released late April of the same year. Additionally, one track was delivered for an all-Dutch compilation CD to be released by Moonlight Records from Germany. This compilation was supposed to hit the scene early 1996 featuring bands like Orphanage, Callenish Circle and Asraï amongst others, but nothing has happened yet and it seems this compilation will never see the light of day. Officium Triste also got more gigs that went very well. The absolute highlight to date has to be the support for Anathema at the Noorderligt venue in Tilburg, the Netherlands in May 1997.The next recordings Officium Triste made were three new tracks (again using Excess studio) for a split MiniCD release with Cold Mourning from Monterey, California, United States. This MCD was also released through Weeping Willow Records, containing two songs by each band. Officium Triste were also featured on a compilation CD released by Innocent Record Productions from the Netherlands. The track featured was "Dreams Of Sorrow" of the "Ne Vivam" album. This compilation did not receive much attention.In September 1998, some irritation between the band members led to the decision to disband. They played a successful goodbye-gig, again supporting Anathema, in their hometown Rotterdam at Baroeg. They also decided to release one more CD-single. This CD contained 'left-overs' from the last two recording sessions: "Roses on my Grave" was recorded at the same time as the songs for the split-MCD and had never before been released and "Headstone" was a cover song from the English band Chorus of Ruin, recorded during the "Ne Vivam" session. In the meantime Martin, Johan and Pim decided to continue and created a new band, XI:LIX (also known as Eleven Fiftynine or 11:59). A new guitarist, also named Johan, was recruited and they started working on new songs. After seven months the former members of Officium Triste decided to meet in the pub to have a drink for old-times sake and decided to reform the band. Johan the new guitarist was also taken in the line-up, leading to a line-up featuring 3 guitarists.In January 2000, Officium Triste recorded two new songs, "Pathway of Broken Glass" and "Divinity" for a promo. The song "Roses on my Grave" was also included. This promo was sent to labels for a possible deal. During April 2000, 'new man' Johan wanted to quit due to lack of time. July 2000, the band let bass-player Johan go. He was replaced by Lawrence who used to play guitar in Death Sentence and drums in Liar of Golgotha. The release of the promo lead to a two-album deal with Displeased Records from the Netherlands. The band entered Valvesound studios in Schiedam, the Netherlands in April 2001 to record a second full-length album. In 10 days it was recorded and mixed. The album was called "The Pathway" and contains seven songs. Meanwhile, the band did some live performances with the new line-up. In October 2001 the album "The Pathway" was released as well as a re-issue of the self-financed "Goodbye" MiniCD "Roses on my Grave" a limited 7" EP with a slightly different cover.After the release of "The Pathway", Officium Triste did a number of gigs of which the support slot for Candlemass in 013 Tilburg and the appearance on the Doom Shall Rise festival were highlights in the history of Officium Triste. The band also started working on new material for their third opus and decided to record the next album in their own studio “El Pato” run by guitarist Johan. The band recorded a demo consisting of one song and Displeased gave green light to record the next album at “El Pato”. During December 2003 and March 2004 they recorded the five-track album "Reason". A lot of shows were done to promote this album directly after the release.In 2005, the band re-released a CD version of the debut album “Ne Vivam” through Russia's Serpent's Lair Productions. This album already was re-released on vinyl in 2003 on Badger Records. At this time the band also started to think about their next re-lease since they once again signed a deal for two albums with Displeased Records. At the end of 2006 Officium Triste felt they were ready to record their fourth album and booked the Excess Studio in Rotterdam. In the first week of January 2007 most parts of the album were recorded and in February the guitar parts were recorded at the band's own El Pato studio. In May the album called “Giving Yourself Away” featuring six new songs was released. At the same time guitarist Johan decided to leave the band after 13 years. His replacement is Bram Bijlhout, former guitarist/ vocalist for the Dutch band Imbolc.
Imaging scienceImaging science is a multidisciplinary field concerned with the generation, collection, duplication, analysis, modification, and visualization of images, including imaging things that the human eye cannot detect. As an evolving field it includes research and researchers from physics, mathematics, electrical engineering, computer vision, computer science, and perceptual psychology.The foundation of imaging science as a discipline is the "imaging chain" – a conceptual model describing all of the factors which must be considered when developing a system for creating visual renderings (images). In general, the links of the imaging chain include:Note that some imaging scientists will include additional "links" in their description of the imaging chain. For example, some will include the "source" of the energy which "illuminates" or interacts with the subject of the image. Others will include storage and/or transmission systems.Subfields within imaging science include: image processing, computer vision, 3D computer graphics, animations, atmospheric optics, astronomical imaging, digital image restoration, digital imaging, color science, digital photography, holography, magnetic resonance imaging, medical imaging, microdensitometry, optics, photography, remote sensing, radar imaging, radiometry, silver halide, ultrasound imaging, photoacoustic imaging, thermal imaging, visual perception, and various printing technologies.
Unadilla RiverThe Unadilla River is a river in the Central New York Region of New York State. The river begins northeast of the hamlet of Millers Mills and flows generally south to the village of Sidney, where it converges with the Susquehanna River, which drains into the Chesapeake Bay, a bay of the Atlantic Ocean.Most of the length of the Unadilla forms the western border of Otsego County and the eastern borders of Chenango and Madison counties, all in New York. This border made up a significant portion of the Fort Stanwix Treaty Line of 1768. It was meant to establish the border for an Indian reserve, beyond which European-American settlers were not supposed to go. Settlers resented British efforts to control their movements, and continued to encroach on Native American territories.The Unadilla has two branches which join at Unadilla Forks on the Otsego-Madison County border.The Unadilla's tributaries, from north to south, include:Unadilla has had various spellings and alternate names, particularly in the 18th century:
.cu.cu is the country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for Cuba.
William EdmestonGeneral William Edmeston (died 1804) was a British Army officer who owned an estate in New York State.As a captain in the 48th Regiment of Foot, he was posted to North America in 1755 with his brother, Lieutenant Robert Edmeston, to fight in the French and Indian War.In 1763, by royal proclamation, the brothers were each awarded 5,000 acres (20 km²) of land in the colonies for their military service. They attempted to establish their claims in what was then a disputed part of the New Hampshire Grants, now Vermont. However, in 1770 they decided to locate on the east bank of the Unadilla River in New York State just west of George Croghan's Otsego patent, in what is now the Town of Edmeston in Otsego County. They established their homes on the land, which became known as the Mount Edmeston Tracts. The transactions were facilitated by Percifer Carr, who had been a sergeant in the 48th with Edmeston and when the Edmeston brothers later returned to England, Carr would be employed as caretaker of their land.When the American War of Independence broke out in 1775 Edmonston was arrested by the Americans and sent to Boston to be exchanged, after which he became Lieutenant-Colonel of the 48th Foot. He was captured by a French privateer in 1779, but he made his way to England the following year and spent the remainder of the war serving in Europe as a lieutenant-colonel, first with the 48th Foot but from 1782 to 1783 with the 50th Foot.Between 1793 and 1796 he was the Colonel of the short-lived 95th Regiment of Foot and in 1802 he was appointed Colonel of the 1st Royal Veteran Battalion. He was promoted full general in 1803.He died the following year and was buried at Hanwell, Middlesex on 3 July 1804.
County LineA county line is the border between two counties.County lines may also refer to:County Line may also refer to:
CourtlandCourtland may refer to:
CreolaCreola may refer to the following places in the United States:
International Association of ExorcistsThe International Association of Exorcists is a Roman Catholic organization which was founded in 1990 by six priests including the world-famous exorcist of Rome, Father Gabriele Amorth and Father Jeremy Davies. Its statutes were approved by the Roman Catholic Church on June 13, 2014.Although the membership is restricted and exclusive, by 2000 there were over two hundred members, who meet bi-annually in Rome. The association sends out a quarterly newsletter where members can tell of particularly interesting or difficult cases. An exorcist priest must have the permission of his bishop to join. Within the Roman Catholic Church a priest may only do an exorcism with the express consent of his bishop or local ordinary, and only, to the extent necessary, after an examination of the patient by doctors and psychiatrists in order to determine that the affliction has no natural origin. A priest is required by canon law to be devout, knowledgeable, prudent, and possess integrity of life.Father Amorth began the organization in the hopes of increasing the number of official exorcists worldwide and to alert more dioceses about the problem,
CrossvilleCrossville is the name of the following towns in the United States:
Kano ChronicleThe Kano Chronicle is a written account of the history of the Hausa people who inhabit northern Nigeria. Although it relates only to Kano, it is typically drawn upon to explain the early history of the Hausa as a whole. This chronicle, a list of rulers of Kano stretching back to the tenth century AD, tells of eleven clans of animists (such as salt-extractors, brewers, or smiths) who were warned by their spiritual leader that a stranger would come and cut down their sacred tree and wrest their dominion from them: “If he comes not in your time, assuredly he will come in the time of your children, and will conquer all in this country” (Palmer 1928: III: 98). Indeed, a man named Bagauda allegedly arrived soon after, conquered, and became the first king of Kano (Palmer 1928: III: 97-100). The existing version was probably written in the 1890s but represents the amalgamation of earlier works. The original copy is still with the descendants of Malam Idris al-Khilawiy in Kano.
Giancarlo GramolazzoFather Giancarlo Gramolazzo (Ortonovo, Italy, 1945 - Rome, 8 November 2010) was an Italian Roman Catholic priest who served as an exorcist. He was the president of the International Association of Exorcists until his death.Born in the north of Italy, he joined the order of Saint Luigi Orione at the age of 12, where he was ordered as a priest in 1973, to become president of the Institute of orphans of Roma-Montemario.He was dedicated during 30 years to exorcism, becoming president of the International Association of Exorcists, founded in 1990 by father Gabriele Amorth (1925–2016), who later remained its honourable president and 5 other priests.Father Gramolazzo has over thirty years experience as an exorcist.He helped Father Gabriele Amorth in a 1999 exorcism of a nineteen years old woman. The next day the same woman who appeared at the Vatican underwent another exorcism performed by Pope John Paul II.In September 2004, in Mexico City, Mexico, Father Gramolazzo addressed more than five hundred participants including exorcist priests from various dioceses in the country at the annual meeting of the International Association of Exorcists.He died in Rome at the age of 65, after a serious disease, as Radio Vatican informed on November 12, 2010. The funeral was officed in the Roman church of All Saints, presided by bishop Giovanni D'Ercole and concelebrated by 60 priests, with the presence of family members, exorcists and representatives of the Association Family of the Immaculate, founded by himself.
Warehouse: Songs and StoriesWarehouse: Songs and Stories (1987) is the sixth and final studio album by alternative rock band Hüsker Dü, originally released by Warner Bros. Records as a double album on two vinyl LPs. The band dissolved following the tour in support of its release, in part due to disagreements between songwriters Bob Mould and Grant Hart over the latter's drug use. This album, along with "Candy Apple Grey", showcases the increasing maturity of Mould and Hart's writing—a change which alienated some long-time fans. This album is also known for its battle between the two songwriters, with Mould famously telling Hart that he would never have more than half of the songs on a Hüsker Dü album.Mould later said that this time period was a "rough stretch", but that "Warehouse" was still a "good record." "Had it been pared back to a single record it might have had more impact, but we were already loggerheads at that point."The album's title comes from the fact that the group had rented some warehouse space in which to write and rehearse; a change from their former practice of writing new material and testing it out on live audiences.During the recording sessions, Hart and Mould replaced a few of Greg Norton's bass tracks for their respective songs when Norton's own contributions were not to their liking. In his autobiography, Mould identified Hart's "Charity, Chastity, Prudence and Hope" as one of the songs whose bass lines were rerecorded, uncredited, by their composers. "Could You Be the One?", was released as a single and video. Other singles released from the album were "She's a Woman (And Now He Is a Man)" and "Ice Cold Ice". "Warehouse: Songs and Stories" peaked at #117 on the "Billboard Top 200" and also charted for a week on the UK Albums Chart at #72. Hüsker Dü also performed 'Could You Be the One?' and 'She's a Woman (And Now He is a Man)' live on the Late Show with Joan Rivers on April 27, 1987. The band were also interviewed by Joan.A cover version of "Up in the Air" was included on Heidi Berry's album "Love".The album was included in the book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die".CD releases of "Warehouse: Songs and Stories" combine all the songs onto a single disc.
DozierDozier is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
DuttonDutton may refer to:
Al-IkhlasAl-Ikhlāṣ (ِArabic: الْإِخْلَاص, "Sincerity"), also known as al-Tawḥīd (, "Monotheism") is the 112th chapter ("sūrah") of the Qur'an. In the early years of Islam, some surahs of the Quran came to be known by several different names, sometimes varying by region. This surah was among those to receive many different titles. It is a short declaration of tawhid, God's absolute oneness, consisting of four ayat. "Al-Ikhlas" means "the purity" or "the refining".It is disputed whether this is a Meccan or Medinan sura. The former seems more probable, particularly since it seems to have been alluded to by Bilal of Abyssinia, who, when he was being tortured by his cruel master, is said to have repeated "Ahad, Ahad!" (unique, referring as here to God). It is reported from Ubayy ibn Ka'b that it was revealed after the polytheists asked "O Muhammad! Tell us the lineage of your Lord."Al-Ikhlas is not merely the name of this surah but also the title of its contents, for it deals exclusively with Tawhid. The other surahs of the Quran generally have been designated after a word occurring in them, but in this surah the word Ikhlas has occurred nowhere. It has been given this name in view of its meaning and subject matter. Whoever understands it and believes in its teaching, will get rid of shirk (polytheism) completely.According to a hadith, this sura is an especially important and honored part of the Quran:
BannaventaBannaventa was a Romano-British fortified town which was situated on the Roman road of Watling Street, which today is known as the A5 trunk road. Bannaventa is northeast of the village of Norton in the English county of Northamptonshire. The Ordnance Survey grid reference for the centre of the town is SP612645.The road where Bannaventa was located is thought to be the first road constructed by the Romans in Britain. It begins in Portus Ritupis (now Richborough) in the county of Kent and runs in a north westerly direction linking many Roman settlements and towns along its route. At Viroconium (now Wroxeter in Shropshire), the road branched with one route going to Deva Victrix (now Chester) and the other into Wales. Bannaventa was a small fortified town on this road and was 10.9 miles north west of the Roman town of Lactodorum (now Towcester).17.3 miles to the north west was the Roman settlement of Venonis (now Wigston Parva) where Watling street is intersected by the Fosse Way.Bannaventa is derived from Brittonic "*bannā" "peak, horn, hill" (cf. Modern Welsh "ban", "top, tip, point, summit, crest, peak, beacon, height, pinnacle, turret, hill, mountain, bare hill") and "*wentā", of obscure origin, but perhaps "place of sacrifice" or simply "place, field" (as in Welsh "cad-went" "battle-field")Mention of the settlement can be found in Emperor Antoninus Pius’s Itinerarium, Iter Britanniarum (The Road Routes of Antoninus Augustus). The extracts are as follows:The translation of these place names are as follows although Isannavantia is assumed to be Bannaventa.Bannaventa was a posting station for Roman travellers and would have operated along the lines of the coaching towns of a later period along Watling Street. The town would have been a vital part of the road infrastructure of Roman Britain. The Fortified town would provide a safe, warm resting place where provisions for the journey could be purchased and horses and other livestock could be safely stabled overnight. The town would also provide some protection for the wider population in the vicinity in times of danger. In close proximity of the town there are several other Roman sites which are connected with Bannaventa. These include the remains of a villa on the summit of nearby Borough Hill, another smaller settlement between Thrupp lodge and Thrupp Grounds (SP 599651) and various other small homesteads have been located at grid references SP613638, SP608649 and another Roman villa at SP605649.It was not until the early 18th century that the site of Bannaventa was positively identified. Previously, sites at nearby Weedon Bec, Daventry-Borough Hill and even Northampton had been suggested. There have been many archaeological finds across the site including the discovery of a skeleton and numerous cremations in a Roman burial ground a little south of the boundary of the fortifications. Other discoveries include Constantinian coins, some foundations, stonework, and pottery; most were found in the early 18th century and they led to the definitive location of the town. More finds in the 20th century have been discovered and are listed below:In 1970 the site was photographed from the air. This revealed the position of Roman Watling Street as it bisected the town, and the outline of the town lying to the west of the A5. The settlement was enclosed by an irregular quadrilateral shape with broad rounded corners, bounded by a series of three sets of banks and ditches. The enclosed area covered some 13.5 acres (55,000 m²). Inside the enclosure evidence has been found of the wooden buildings which made up most of the town.Nothing obviously Roman now remains above ground and has no public access, and is privately owned and farmed as an arable field. It is a Scheduled Ancient Monument.Saint Patrick, patron saint of Ireland, tells us in his "Confession" that he had been born in a settlement called "Bannavem Taburniae". The location is unknown, but the first part of the name can probably be read as "Bannaventa". This led at least one local historian to guess that Patrick was born at the Roman town described above. However an early Life of Patrick describes his birthplace as "near the western sea", as indeed we should expect, as he was carried into slavery in Ireland by Irish raiders. The name of Patrick's birthplace incorporated some such word as "Taburniae", probably to distinguish it from the Bannaventa now in Northamptonshire.
Kano (disambiguation)Kano is a city in Nigeria, and the capital of Kano State.Kano may also refer to:
British Columbia Social Credit Party leadership electionsThe British Columbia Social Credit Party was a conservative political party in the Province of British Columbia, Canada. The provincial Social Credit movement was divided in its early years and was largely under the influence of the Alberta Social Credit League and did not have a functional leadership before 1952. The 1952 leadership convention was held when the party was largely dominated by the Alberta leadership of the national social credit movement. Alberta Premier Ernest Manning hand-picked Ernest George Hansell to lead the BC party into the election despite the fact that Hansell was an Alberta politician. W.A.C. Bennett was chosen party leader by Social Credit MLAs following the election. In 1973, the party elected W.A.C. Bennett's son, Bill Bennett, on the first ballot.All of the party's leadership conventions before 1993 were delegated, i.e., local party riding associations selected delegates to attend a convention and elect a leader by secret ballot. The 1993 leadership election was determined by a "one-member, one-vote" system, using mail-in preferential ballots. The 1994 leadership election used the same system, but did not incorporate preferential balloting as there were only two candidates.Held April 27, 1952At this time the Alberta Social Credit League still dominated the British Columbia association. Hansell, an Alberta Social Credit Member of Parliament, was the hand-picked candidate of Alberta Premier Ernest Manning. Bennett and Wicks were both nominated from the floor, however, but declined allowing Hansell to be acclaimed. Following the general election in which Social Credit unexpectedly emerged as the largest party, Wicks, who was the British Columbia party's president, called a new leadership vote at which only elected Social Credit MLAs could vote. In this contest, held on July 15, 1952, Bennett defeated Philip Gaglardi by a margin of 10 to 9 to become Social Credit leader and was invited by the lieutenant-governor to become Premier of the province.First Ballot:First Ballot:Second Ballot (Campbell eliminated, five others withdraw):Third Ballot (Nielsen eliminated, Reynolds and Bud Smith withdraw):Fourth Ballot (McCarthy eliminated):On April 2, 1991, Rita Johnston was elected by the party's MLAs as their interim leader, defeating Russ Fraser by 21 votes to 17 on the fourth ballot. Claude Richmond, Norm Jacobsen and Mel Couvelier had previously been eliminated.First Ballot:Second Ballot (Couvelier supports Johnston):First Ballot:Second Ballot:Third Ballot:First Ballot:
HeckHeck may refer to:Hecke may refer to:
Apulia and CalabriaApulia and Calabria () may refer to:
Divide-and-conquer eigenvalue algorithmDivide-and-conquer eigenvalue algorithms are a class of eigenvalue algorithms for Hermitian or real symmetric matrices that have recently (circa 1990s) become competitive in terms of stability and efficiency with more traditional algorithms such as the QR algorithm. The basic concept behind these algorithms is the divide-and-conquer approach from computer science. An eigenvalue problem is divided into two problems of roughly half the size, each of these are solved recursively, and the eigenvalues of the original problem are computed from the results of these smaller problems.Here we present the simplest version of a divide-and-conquer algorithm, similar to the one originally proposed by Cuppen in 1981. Many details that lie outside the scope of this article will be omitted; however, without considering these details, the algorithm is not fully stable.As with most eigenvalue algorithms for Hermitian matrices, divide-and-conquer begins with a reduction to tridiagonal form. For an formula_1 matrix, the standard method for this, via Householder reflections, takes formula_2 flops, or formula_3 if eigenvectors are needed as well. There are other algorithms, such as the Arnoldi iteration, which may do better for certain classes of matrices; we will not consider this further here.In certain cases, it is possible to "deflate" an eigenvalue problem into smaller problems. Consider a block diagonal matrixThe eigenvalues and eigenvectors of formula_5 are simply those of formula_6 and formula_7, and it will almost always be faster to solve these two smaller problems than to solve the original problem all at once. This technique can be used to improve the efficiency of many eigenvalue algorithms, but it has special significance to divide-and-conquer.For the rest of this article, we will assume the input to the divide-and-conquer algorithm is an formula_1 real symmetric tridiagonal matrix formula_5. Although the algorithm can be modified for Hermitian matrices, we do not give the details here.The "divide" part of the divide-and-conquer algorithm comes from the realization that a tridiagonal matrix is "almost" block diagonal.The size of submatrix formula_6 we will call formula_11, and then formula_7 is formula_13. Note that the remark about formula_5 being almost block diagonal is true regardless of how formula_15 is chosen (i.e., there are many ways to so decompose the matrix). However, it makes sense, from an efficiency standpoint, to choose formula_16. We write formula_5 as a block diagonal matrix, plus a rank-1 correction:The only difference between formula_6 and formula_19 is that the lower right entry formula_20 in formula_19 has been replaced with formula_22 and similarly, in formula_23 the top left entry formula_24 has been replaced with formula_25.The remainder of the divide step is to solve for the eigenvalues (and if desired the eigenvectors) of formula_19 and formula_23, that is to find the diagonalizations formula_28 and formula_29. This can be accomplished with recursive calls to the divide-and-conquer algorithm, although practical implementations often switch to the QR algorithm for small enough submatrices.The "conquer" part of the algorithm is the unintuitive part. Given the diagonalizations of the submatrices, calculated above, how do we find the diagonalization of the original matrix?First, define formula_30, where formula_31 is the last row of formula_32 and formula_33 is the first row of formula_34. It is now elementary to show thatThe remaining task has been reduced to finding the eigenvalues of a diagonal matrix plus a rank-one correction. Before showing how to do this, let us simplify the notation. We are looking for the eigenvalues of the matrix formula_36, where formula_37 is diagonal with distinct entries and formula_38 is any vector with nonzero entries.If w is zero, (formula_39,d) is an eigenpair of formula_36 sinceformula_41.If formula_42 is an eigenvalue, we have:where formula_44 is the corresponding eigenvector. NowKeep in mind that formula_48 is a nonzero scalar. Neither formula_38 nor formula_44 are zero. If formula_48 were to be zero, formula_44 would be an eigenvector of formula_37 by formula_43. If that were the case, formula_44 would contain only one nonzero position since formula_37 is distinct diagonal and thus the inner product formula_48 can not be zero after all. Therefore, we have:or written as a scalar equation,This equation is known as the "secular equation". The problem has therefore been reduced to finding the roots of the rational function defined by the left-hand side of this equation.All general eigenvalue algorithms must be iterative, and the divide-and-conquer algorithm is no different. Solving the nonlinear secular equation requires an iterative technique, such as the Newton–Raphson method. However, each root can be found in O(1) iterations, each of which requires formula_60 flops (for an formula_61-degree rational function), making the cost of the iterative part of this algorithm formula_62.As is common for divide and conquer algorithms, we will use the master theorem for divide-and-conquer recurrences to analyze the running time. Remember that above we stated we choose formula_16. We can write the recurrence relation:In the notation of the Master theorem, formula_65 and thus formula_66. Clearly, formula_67, so we haveRemember that above we pointed out that reducing a Hermitian matrix to tridiagonal form takes formula_2 flops. This dwarfs the running time of the divide-and-conquer part, and at this point it is not clear what advantage the divide-and-conquer algorithm offers over the QR algorithm (which also takes formula_62 flops for tridiagonal matrices).The advantage of divide-and-conquer comes when eigenvectors are needed as well. If this is the case, reduction to tridiagonal form takes formula_3, but the second part of the algorithm takes formula_72 as well. For the QR algorithm with a reasonable target precision, this is formula_73, whereas for divide-and-conquer it is formula_74. The reason for this improvement is that in divide-and-conquer, the formula_72 part of the algorithm (multiplying formula_76 matrices) is separate from the iteration, whereas in QR, this must occur in every iterative step. Adding the formula_3 flops for the reduction, the total improvement is from formula_78 to formula_79 flops.Practical use of the divide-and-conquer algorithm has shown that in most realistic eigenvalue problems, the algorithm actually does better than this. The reason is that very often the matrices formula_76 and the vectors formula_81 tend to be "numerically sparse", meaning that they have many entries with values smaller than the floating point precision, allowing for "numerical deflation", i.e. breaking the problem into uncoupled subproblems.The algorithm presented here is the simplest version. In many practical implementations, more complicated rank-1 corrections are used to guarantee stability; some variants even use rank-2 corrections.There exist specialized root-finding techniques for rational functions that may do better than the Newton-Raphson method in terms of both performance and stability. These can be used to improve the iterative part of the divide-and-conquer algorithm.The divide-and-conquer algorithm is readily parallelized, and linear algebra computing packages such as LAPACK contain high-quality parallel implementations.
EldridgeEldridge may refer to:
Ultra-high vacuumUltra-high vacuum (UHV) is the vacuum regime characterised by pressures lower than about 10 pascal or 100 nanopascals (10 mbar, ~10 torr). UHV conditions are created by pumping the gas out of a UHV chamber. At these low pressures the mean free path of a gas molecule is greater than approximately 40 km, so the gas is in free molecular flow, and gas molecules will collide with the chamber walls many times before colliding with each other. Almost all molecular interactions therefore take place on various surfaces in the chamber.UHV conditions are integral to scientific research. Surface science experiments often require a chemically clean sample surface with the absence of any unwanted adsorbates. Surface analysis tools such as X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and low energy ion scattering require UHV conditions for the transmission of electron or ion beams. For the same reason, beam pipes in particle accelerators such as the Large Hadron Collider are kept at UHV.Maintaining UHV conditions requires the use of unusual materials for equipment. Useful concepts for UHV include:Typically, UHV requires:Hydrogen and carbon monoxide are the most common background gases in a well-designed, well-baked UHV system. Both Hydrogen and CO diffuse out from the grain boundaries in stainless steel. Helium could diffuse through the steel and glass from the outside air, but this effect is usually negligible due to the low abundance of He in the atmosphere.Measurement of high vacuum is done using a "nonabsolute gauge" that measures a pressure-related property of the vacuum, for example, its thermal conductivity. See, for example, Pacey. These gauges must be calibrated. The gauges capable of measuring the lowest pressures are magnetic gauges based upon the pressure dependence of the current in a spontaneous gas discharge in intersecting electric and magnetic fields.UHV pressures are measured with an ion gauge, either a hot filament or an inverted magnetron type.Outgassing is a problem for UHV systems. Outgassing can occur from two sources: surfaces and bulk materials. Outgassing from bulk materials is minimized by selection of materials with low vapor pressures (such as glass, stainless steel, and ceramics) for everything inside the system. Materials which are not generally considered absorbent can outgas, including most plastics and some metals. For example, vessels lined with a highly gas-permeable material such as palladium (which is a high-capacity hydrogen sponge) create special outgassing problems.Outgassing from surfaces is a subtler problem. At extremely low pressures, more gas molecules are adsorbed on the walls than are floating in the chamber, so the total surface area inside a chamber is more important than its volume for reaching UHV. Water is a significant source of outgassing because a thin layer of water vapor rapidly adsorbs to everything whenever the chamber is opened to air. Water evaporates from surfaces too slowly to be fully removed at room temperature, but just fast enough to present a continuous level of background contamination. Removal of water and similar gases generally requires baking the UHV system at 200 to 400 °C while vacuum pumps are running. During chamber use, the walls of the chamber may be chilled using liquid nitrogen to reduce outgassing further.In order to reach low pressures, is often useful to heat the entire system above 100 °C for many hours (a process known as bake-out) to remove water and other trace gases which adsorb on the surfaces of the chamber is required upon "cycling" the equipment to atmosphere. This process significantly speeds up the process of outgassing, allowing low pressures to be reached much faster.There is no single vacuum pump that can operate all the way from atmospheric pressure to ultra-high vacuum. Instead, a series of different pumps is used, according to the appropriate pressure range for each pump. In the first stage, a roughing pump clears most of the gas from the chamber. This is followed by one or more vacuum pumps that operate at low pressures. Pumps commonly used in this second stage to achieve UHV include:To save time, energy, and integrity of the UHV volume an airlock is often used. The airlock volume has one door or valve facing the UHV side of the volume, and another door against atmospheric pressure through which samples or workpieces are initially introduced. After sample introduction and assuring that the door against atmosphere is closed, the airlock volume is typically pumped down to a medium-high vacuum. In some cases the workpiece itself is baked out or otherwise pre-cleaned under this medium-high vacuum. The gateway to the UHV chamber is then opened, the workpiece transferred to the UHV by robotic means or by other contrivance if necessary, and the UHV valve re-closed. While the initial workpiece is being processed under UHV, a subsequent sample can be introduced into the airlock volume, pre-cleaned, and so-on and so-forth, saving much time. Although a "puff" of gas is generally released into the UHV system when the valve to the airlock volume is opened, the UHV system pumps can generally snatch this gas away before it has time to adsorb onto the UHV surfaces. In a system well designed with suitable airlocks, the UHV components seldom need bakeout and the UHV may improve over time even as workpieces are introduced and removed.Metal seals, with knife edges on both sides cutting into a soft, copper gasket. This all-metal seal can maintain pressures down to 100 pPa (~10 Torr).Many common materials are used sparingly if at all due to high vapor pressure, high adsorptivity or absorptivity resulting in subsequent troublesome outgassing, or high permeability in the face of differential pressure (i.e.: "through-gassing"):Technical limitations: A UHV manipulator allows an object which is inside a vacuum chamber and under vacuum to be mechanically positioned. It may provide rotarymotion, linear motion, or a combination of both. The most complex devices give motion in three axes and rotations around two of those axes. To generate the mechanical movement inside the chamber, two basic mechanisms are commonly employed: a mechanical coupling through the vacuum wall (using a vacuum-tight seal around the coupling), or a magnetic coupling that transfers motion from air-side to vacuum-side. Various forms of motion control are available for manipulators, such as knobs, handwheels, motors, stepping motors, piezoelectric motors, and pneumatics.The manipulator or sample holder may include features that allow additional control and testing of a sample, such as the ability to apply heat, cooling, voltage, or a magnetic field. Sample heating can be accomplished by electron bombardment or thermal radiation. For electron bombardment, the sample holder is equipped with a filament which emits electrons when biased at a high negative potential. The impact of theelectrons bombarding the sample at high energy causes it to heat. For thermal radiation, a filament is mounted close to the sample and resistively heated to high temperature. The infrared energy from the filament heats the sample.Ultra-high vacuum is necessary for many surface analytic techniques such as:UHV is necessary for these applications to reduce surface contamination, by reducing the number of molecules reaching the sample over a given time period. At 0.1 mPa (10 Torr), it only takes 1 second to cover a surface with a contaminant, so much lower pressures are needed for long experiments.UHV is also required for:and, while not compulsory, can prove beneficial in applications such as:
ElkmontElkmont may refer to:
Island Council (Pitcairn)The Island Council is the legislature of the Pitcairn Islands. The Council has ten members, seven (five Councillors, the Mayor, and the Deputy Mayor) of whom are elected by popular vote and are the only members that are allowed to vote during any Council meeting. The other three are "ex-officio" members: the Administrator (who serves as both the head of government and the representative of the Governor of the Pitcairn Islands), the Governor, and the Deputy Governor. The Councillors and the Deputy Mayor all serve two year terms. The Mayor is elected for three years and is eligible to serve a second term in office, whilst the Administrator is appointed by the Governor for an indefinite term.The presiding officer of the council was traditionally the "Magistrate", who held executive, legislative, and judicial authority. Following a constitutional review in 1998, this office was divided and replaced by the "Mayor" and the "council chairman," effective from 1999).Until 2011 the Governor appointed a second member of the Council. However, this position was scrapped in favour of introducing the fifth elected seat.As of 23 November 2016, the current composition of the Island Council is:Voting Members:Non-voting (ex-officio) Members:
PlanimeterA planimeter, also known as a platometer, is a measuring instrument used to determine the area of an arbitrary two-dimensional shape.There are several kinds of planimeters, but all operate in a similar way. The precise way in which they are constructed varies, with the main types of mechanical planimeter being polar, linear and Prytz or "hatchet" planimeters. The Swiss mathematician Jakob Amsler-Laffon built the first modern planimeter in 1854, the concept having been pioneered by Johann Martin Hermann in 1814. Many developments followed Amsler's famous planimeter, including electronic versions.The Amsler (polar) type consists of a two-bar linkage. At the end of one link is a pointer, used to trace around the boundary of the shape to be measured. The other end of the linkage pivots freely on a weight that keeps it from moving. Near the junction of the two links is a measuring wheel of calibrated diameter, with a scale to show fine rotation, and worm gearing for an auxiliary turns counter scale. As the area outline is traced, this wheel rolls on the surface of the drawing. The operator sets the wheel, turns the counter to zero, and then traces the pointer around the perimeter of the shape. When the tracing is complete, the scales at the measuring wheel show the shape's area.When the planimeter's measuring wheel moves perpendicular to its axis, it rolls, and this movement is recorded. When the measuring wheel moves parallel to its axis, the wheel skids without rolling, so this movement is ignored. That means the planimeter measures the distance that its measuring wheel travels, projected perpendicularly to the measuring wheel's axis of rotation. The area of the shape is proportional to the number of turns through which the measuring wheel rotates.The polar planimeter is restricted by design to measuring areas within limits determined by its size and geometry. However, the linear type has no restriction in one dimension, because it can roll. Its wheels must not slip, because the movement must be constrained to a straight line.Developments of the planimeter can establish the position of the first moment of area (center of mass), and even the second moment of area.The images show the principles of a linear and a polar planimeter. The pointer M at one end of the planimeter follows the contour C of the surface S to be measured. For the linear planimeter the movement of the "elbow" E is restricted to the "y"-axis. For the polar planimeter the "elbow" is connected to an arm with its other endpoint O at a fixed position. Connected to the arm ME is the measuring wheel with its axis of rotation parallel to ME. A movement of the arm ME can be decomposed into a movement perpendicular to ME, causing the wheel to rotate, and a movement parallel to ME, causing the wheel to skid, with no contribution to its reading.The working of the linear planimeter may be explained by measuring the area of a rectangle ABCD (see image). Moving with the pointer from A to B the arm EM moves through the yellow parallelogram, with area equal to PQ×EM. This area is also equal to the area of the parallelogram A"ABB". The measuring wheel measures the distance PQ (perpendicular to EM). Moving from C to D the arm EM moves through the green parallelogram, with area equal to the area of the rectangle D"DCC". The measuring wheel now moves in the opposite direction, subtracting this reading from the former. The movements along BC and DA are the same but opposite, so they cancel each other with no net effect on the reading of the wheel. The net result is the measuring of the difference of the yellow and green areas, which is the area of ABCD.The operation of a linear planimeter can be justified by applying Green's theorem onto the components of the vector field N, given by:where "b" is the "y"-coordinate of the elbow E.This vector field is perpendicular to the measuring arm EM:and has a constant size, equal to the length "m" of the measuring arm:Then:because:The left hand side of the above equation, which is equal to the area "A" enclosed by the contour, is proportional to the distance measured by the measuring wheel, with proportionality factor "m", the length of the measuring arm.The justification for the above derivation lies in noting that the linear planimeter only records movement perpendicular to its measuring arm, or when The connection with Green's theorem can be understood in terms of integration in polar coordinates: in polar coordinates, area is computed by the integral formula_7 where the form being integrated is "quadratic" in "r," meaning that the rate at which area changes with respect to change in angle varies quadratically with the radius.For a parametric equation in polar coordinates, where both "r" and "θ" vary as a function of time, this becomesFor a polar planimeter the total rotation of the wheel is proportional to formula_9 as the rotation is proportional to the distance traveled, which at any point in time is proportional to radius and to change in angle, as in the circumference of a circle (formula_10).This last integrand formula_11 can be recognized as the derivative of the earlier integrand formula_12 (with respect to "r"), and shows that a polar planimeter computes the area integral in terms of the "derivative", which is reflected in Green's theorem, which equates a line integral of a function on a (1-dimensional) contour to the (2-dimensional) integral of the derivative.
Bde Maka SkaBde Maka Ska (, also known as Lake Calhoun) is the largest lake in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and part of the city's Chain of Lakes. Surrounded by city park land and circled by bike and walking trails, it is popular for many outdoor activities. The lake has an area of and a maximum depth of .The lake is part of the Grand Rounds National Scenic Byway, connecting with Lake of the Isles on the northeast, Cedar Lake and Brownie Lake on the northwest, and Lake Harriet on the south. The Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board trail system has a trail around the lake for bicyclists and skaters and a trail around it for pedestrians. Both of these trails connect to the larger trail system via connections to Lake of the Isles and Lake Harriet. In addition, the Midtown Greenway Trail is located just north of the lake and Lake Street. The lake itself is popular for canoeing, kayaking, and windsurfing, and it has three swimming beaches.The three beaches are North Beach on the north side of the lake, 32nd Beach on the east, and Thomas Beach on the south. There is Bde Maka Ska Park and surrounding park land offers parking, picnicking, volleyball, and athletic fields. It is also home of sailing, hosting the Calhoun Yacht Club, the Minneapolis Sailing Center, as well as local high school teams and the University of St. Thomas Sailing Team.From 1829-1839, it was the site of the Bdewákhathuŋwaŋ Dakota agricultural village known as Ḣeyate Otuŋwe. A plaque on the east side of the lake commemorates the mission station built by Samuel and Gideon Pond where they created the first alphabet for the Dakota language at Cloudman's Village. In 2019, the Bde Maka Ska Public Art Project was completed on the village site. On the west side is The Bakken, an old mansion with medicinal gardens and a library and museum devoted to medical electricity and the history of electromagnetism. The Como-Harriet Streetcar Line operates between the lake and Lake Harriet.The Dakota originally called the lake "Mde Maka Ska" (modern spelling ; English approximation: "Be-DAY Mah-KAH-Ska") meaning "Lake White Earth", or "Lake White Bank", a name that probably was given by the Ioway who inhabited the area until the 16th century. Another Dakota name for the lake may have been "Mde Med'oza", which was the name initially adopted by settlers, either as "Lake Medoza" or in translation as "Loon Lake". The Dakota also described it as "Heyate Mde", meaning the set back lake.The United States Secretary of War, John C. Calhoun, sent the Army to survey the area that would surround Fort Snelling in 1817. Calhoun had also authorized the construction of Fort Snelling, one of the earliest American settlements in the state. The surveyors named the water body "Lake Calhoun" in his honor, and the Fort Snelling Military Reservation survey map of Lt. James L. Thompson in 1839 shows that name for the lake.Calhoun's legacy as a slaveowner and pro-slavery politician led critics to question whether he was the best person to be honored. In 2011 the Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board (MPRB) visited the issue. Their legal counsel concluded that the board could not legally change the name, as state law gives that power to the Commissioner of Natural Resources, and then only in the first 40 years after the name was designated. Following the Charleston church shooting in June 2015, a fresh drive to change the name started via an online petition and the Park Board indicated it would look into whether they could change the lake's name through state action. At the time, the "Minneapolis Star Tribune" published an article quoting Calhoun's views on the black race:The number of deaf and dumb, blind, idiots and insane of the Negroes in the States that have changed the ancient relations between the races [and are no longer slaves] is one out of every ninety-six; while in the States adhering to it [slavery], it is one out of every six hundred and sixty-one; being nearly six to one against the free blacks in the same stateas well as his actions in ordering the flogging of one his own slaves. In fall 2015 the board added the Dakota name to signage below the official name. In March 2016, an advisory group decided by majority vote to urge the MPRB to restore the lake's former name. There was also a proposal to rename the lake for Senator Paul Wellstone, who is buried in nearby Lakewood Cemetery.In 2017, the Minneapolis Park Board voted unanimously to recommend changing the lake's name back to Bde Maka Ska and the Hennepin County commissioners agreed. In January 2018, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) made Bde Maka Ska the official name in Minnesota. To change it at the federal level, the state submitted materials to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names, which approved the change in June 2018. Park signs around the lake use only the name Bde Maka Ska. On April 29, 2019, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the decision of the DNR, holding that a name that had been in use more than 40 years could only be changed by the legislature. The MPRB stated they will continue to keep the signage of Bde Maka Ska at the lake and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey said, "I will continue to call Bde Maka Ska by its rightful name. That was the lake's name before people who look like me renamed it to honor a slavery apologist and — as far as I'm concerned — that is still its name today". The DNR has 30 days from the date of the ruling to appeal and also released a statement confirming that the federal Board on Geographic Names has adopted Bde Maka Ska as the lake's official name, therefore the federal name will continue to be Bde Maka Ska. Executive secretary of the U.S. Board on Geographic Names Lou Yost said, "State legislation (or court ruling) is not binding on the Federal Government. The name at the Federal level will remain Bde Maka Ska as was approved at the BGN's June 21, 2018 meeting".The lake contains black crappie, bluegill, bowfin, common carp, hybrid sunfish, largemouth bass, northern pike, pumpkinseed, tiger muskellunge, walleye, white sucker, and yellow perch. Some fish consumption guideline restrictions have been placed on the lake's bluegill, crappie, largemouth bass, northern pike, walleye, and white sucker due to mercury and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid contamination.In 1991, the then-Minnesota state record tiger muskellunge at 33 pounds 8 ounces was caught in the lake. The Minneapolis Park and Recreation website lists the lake as one of the best in the city for ice fishing walleye, northern pike, and crappies.Zebra mussels, an aquatic invasive species, were found in the lake in 2018.
Gesta HungarorumGesta Hungarorum, or The Deeds of the Hungarians, is the first extant Hungarian book about history. Its genre is not chronicle, but "gesta", meaning "deeds" or "acts", which is a medieval entertaining literature. It was written by an unidentified author who has traditionally been called Anonymus in scholarly works. According to most historians, the work was completed between around 1200 and 1230. The "Gesta" exists in a sole manuscript from the second part of the 13th century, which was for centuries held in Vienna. It is part of the collection of Széchényi National Library in Budapest.The principal subject of the "Gesta" is the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin at the turn of the 9th and 10th centuries, and it writes of the origin of the Hungarians, identifying the Hungarians' ancestors with the ancient Scythians. Many of its sources—including the Bible, Isidore of Seville's "Etymologiae", the 7th-century "Exordia Scythica", the late 9th-century Regino of Prüm's "Chronicon", and early medieval romances of Alexander the Great—have been identified by scholars. Anonymus also used folk songs and ballads when writing his work. He knew a version of the late 11th-century "Hungarian Chronicle" the text of which has partially been preserved in his work and in later chronicles, but his narration of the Hungarian Conquest differs from the version provided by the other chronicles. Anonymus did not mention the opponents of the conquering Hungarians known from sources written around 900, but he wrote of the Hungarians' fight against rulers unknown from other sources. According to a scholarly theory, he used place names when naming the opponents of the Hungarians.Although the Hungarians, or Magyars, seem to have used their own alphabet before adopting Christianity in the 11th century, most information of their early history was recorded by Muslim, Byzantine and Western European authors. For instance, the "Annals of Fulda", Regino of Prüm's "Chronicon", and Emperor Constantine VII's "De administrando imperio" contain contemporaneous or nearly contemporaneous reports of their conquest of the Carpathian Basin at the turn of the 9th and 10th centuries. Among the Hungarians, oral tradition — songs and ballads — preserved the memory of the most important historical events. The "Illuminated Chronicle" explicitly stated that the "seven captains" who led the Hungarians during the Conquest "composed lays about themselves and sang them among themselves in order to win worldly renown and to publish their names abroad, so that their posterity might be able to boast and brag to neighbours and friends when these songs were heard".The "Gesta Hungarorum", or "The Deeds of the Hungarians", is the first extant Hungarian chronicle. Its principal subject is the conquest of the Carpathian Basin and it narrates the background and the immediate aftermath of the conquest. Many historiansincluding Carlile Aylmer Macartney and András Róna-Tasagree that Simon of Kéza's chronicle, the "Illuminated Chronicle" and other works composed in the 13th–15th centuries preserved texts which had been written before the completion of the "Gesta". They say that the first "Hungarian Chronicle" was completed in the second half of the 11th century or in the early 12th century. The existence of this ancient chronicle is proven by later sources. One Ricardus's report of a journey of a group of Dominican friars in the early 1230s refers to a chronicle, "The Deeds of the Christian Hungarians", which contained information of an eastern "Magna Hungaria". The "Illuminated Chronicle" from 1358 refers to "the ancient books about the deeds of the Hungarians" in connection with the pagan uprisings of the 11th century. The earliest "Hungarian Chronicle" was expanded and rewritten several times in the 12th–14th centuries, but its content can only be reconstructed based on 14th-century works.The work exists in a sole manuscript. The codex is in size and contains 24 folios, including two blank pages. The first page of the codex originally contained the beginning of the "Gesta". It was blanked because the scribe had made mistakes when writing the text. The work was written in a Gothic minuscule. The style of the letters and decorations, including the elaborate initial on its first page, shows that the manuscript was completed in the middle or in the second part of the 13th century. Scribal errors suggest that the extant manuscript is a copy of the original work. For instance, the scribe wrote "Cleopatram" instead of "Neopatram" in the text narrating a Hungarian raid in the Byzantine Empire although the context clearly shows that the author of the "Gesta" referred to Neopatras (now Ypati in Greece).The history of the manuscript up until the early 17th century is unknown. It became part of the collection of the Imperial Library in Vienna between 1601 and 1636. In this period, the court librarian Sebastian Tengnagel registered it under the title "Historia Hungarica de VII primis ducibus Hungariae auctore Belae regis notario" ("Hungarian History of the First Seven Princes of Hungary Written by King Béla's Notary"). Tengnagel added numbers to the folios and the chapters. The codex was bound with a leather book cover, impressed with a double-headed eagle, in the late 18th century. The manuscript, which was transferred to Hungary in 1933 or 1934, is held in the Széchényi National Library in Budapest.The author of the "Gesta Hungarorum" has been known as Anonymus ever since the publication of the first Hungarian translation of his work in 1790. The author described himself as "P who is called magister, and sometime notary of the most glorious Béla, king of Hungary of fond memory" in the opening sentence of the "Gesta". The identification of this King Béla is subject to scholarly debate, because four Hungarian monarchs bore this name. Most historians identify the king with Béla III of Hungary who died in 1196.Anonymus dedicated his work to "the most venerable man N" who had been his schoolmate in an unspecified school. Anonymus mentioned that they had found pleasure in reading the "Trojan History", a work attributed to Dares Phrygius, which enjoyed popularity in the Middle Ages. He also referred to a work of the Trojan War that he had "brought most lovingly together into one volume" upon his masters' instructions. Anonymus stated that he had decided to write of "the genealogy of the kings of Hungary and of their noblemen" because he had no knowledge of any decent account of the Hungarian Conquest. According to scholars who identify Anonymus as King Béla III's notary, he wrote his "Gesta" around 1200 or in the first decades of the 13th century.The study of place names mentioned in the "Gesta" suggests that Anonymus had a detailed knowledge both of the wider region of Óbuda and Csepel Island (in and to the south of present-day Budapest) and of the lands along the upper courses of the river Tisza. For instance, he mentioned a dozen places — settlements, ferries and streams — in the former region, including "a small river that flows through a stone culvert" to Óbuda. He did not write of the southern and eastern parts of Transylvania.Minstrels and folk-singers reciting heroic songs were well-known figures of the age of Anonymus. He explicitly referred to "the gabbling rhymes of mistrels and the spurious tales of peasants who have not forgotten the brave deeds and wars of the Hungarians" even to his time. However, he did not conceal his scorn for oral tradition, stating that it "would be most unworthy and completely unfitting for the so most noble people of Hungary to hear as if in sleep of the beginning of their kind and of their bravery and deeds from the false stories of peasants and the gabbling song of minstrels". All the same, stylistic elements (including formulaic repetitions which can be found in his text) imply that he occasionally used heroic songs. According to Kristó, the legend of Emese's dream of the "falcon that seemed to come to her and impregnate her" was one of the motifs that Anonymus borrowed from oral tradition.Anonymus, as Macartney says, claimed to "rely solely on written sources, as alone trusworthy" when writing his work. Among his sources, Anonymus explicitly mentioned the Bible and Dares Phrygius's "Trojan History". He borrowed texts from the latter work and adopted its "overall structure of short but informative accounts naming important protagonists and main events", according to historians Martyn Rady and László Veszprémy. Anonymus also referred to "historians writing of the deeds of the Romans" when narrating the history of the Scythians. According to Kristó, Györffy and Thoroczkay, Anonymus obviously read the so-called "Exordia Scythica" ("Scythian Genesis"), a 7th-century abridgement of a work of the 2nd-century historian, Justin.Anonymus used Regino of Prüm's "Chronicon", that he mentioned as "the annals of chronicles" in his "Gesta". He accepted Regino of Prüm's view when identifying the Scythians as the Hungarians' ancestors. Sometimes, he misinterpreted his sources. For instance, he wrote of "the boundaries of the Caranthians of the Mura" ("Carinthinorum Moroanensium fines") instead of the "lands of the Carinthians, Moravians" ("Carantenorum, Marahensium ... fines") of which he read in Regino of Prüm's "Chronicon", which shows that Anonymus did not understand Regino of Prüm's reference to the Moravians.Direct borrowings from Isidore of Seville's "Etymologiae", Hugh of Bologna's "Rationes dictani prosaice", and medieval romances about Alexander the Great prove that Anonymus also used these works. According to Macartney, textual coincidences show that Anonymus adopted parts of late 12th-century chronicles narrating Frederick Barbarossa's crusade. For instance, Anonymus' descriptions of tournaments seem to have been taken from Arnold of Lübeck's "Chronicle of the Slavs".Anonymus also used the ancient "Hungarian Chronicle" or its sources. However, there are differences between Anonymus' narration of the Hungarian Conquest and other works preserving texts from the ancient chronicle. For instance, the "Illuminated Chronicle" wrote of the Hungarians' arrival in Transylvania across the Carpathian Mountains from the east at the beginning of the Conquest, but according to Anonymus the Hungarians invaded Transylvania across the valleys of the Meseş Mountains from the west at a later stage.Sources from the turn of the 9th and 10th centuries mentioned more than a dozen persons who played an important role in the history of the Carpathian Basin at the time of the Hungarian Conquest. Anonymus did not mention any of them; he did not refer, for instance, to Arnulf of Carinthia, Boris I of Bulgaria, and Svatopluk I of Moravia. On the other hand, none of the persons whom Anonymus listed among the opponents of the conquering Hungarians — for instance, the Bulgarian Salan, the Khazar Menumorut and the Vlach Gelouwere mentioned in other sources. According to Györffy, Engel, and other historians, Anonymus either invented these personalities or listed them anachronistically among the conquering Hungarians' opponents. Martyn Rady and László Veszprémy explicitly describe the "Gesta Hungarorum" as a "'toponymic romance'that seeks to explain place-names by reference to imagined events or persons, and vice versa." For instance, Györffy writes that Gelou's story was based on the conquest of Gyula of Transylvania's realm by Stephen I of Hungary in the early 11th century and Gelou was named after the town Gilău where he was killed in battle, according to Anonymus. Anonymus likewise wrote that the Bulgarian Laborec had died at the River Laborec and the Czech Zubur on the Mount Zobor near Nitra.Anonymus did not allude to the Hungarians' decisive victory over the united Bavarian forces in the Battle of Pressburg in 907, but he narrated battles unknown from other works. Anonymus seems to have applied place names when creating these battles, according to Győrffy. For instance, the "Gesta Hungarorum" wrote of a battle between the Greeks and the Hungarians at a ford by the River Tisza which was named after this event as "Ford of the Greeks", according to Anonymus, although it received this name after its revenues were granted to the Greek Orthodox monastery of Sremska Mitrovica in the 12th century.Late 9th-century sources mentioned the Avars, the Bavarians, the Bulgarians, the Danubian Slavs, the Gepids and the Moravians among the peoples inhabiting the Carpathian Basin. Anonymus did not mention the Avars, the Bavarians, the Gepids and the Moravians, but he listed the Czechs, the Greeks, the Khazars, the "Romans" and their shepherds, the Székelys, and the Vlachs besides the Bulgarians and the Slavs. According to Györffy and Madgearu, Anonymus may have based his list of the peoples inhabiting the Carpathian Basin on the local Slavs' oral tradition which was preserved in the early 12th-century "Russian Primary Chronicle". The latter source described the Slavs as the first settlers in the Carpathian Basin and mentioned that they were conquered by the ""Volokhi"" before the Hungarians arrived and expelled the "Volokhi". According to Györffy, Kristó and other historians, Anonymus misinterpreted his source when identifying the "Volokhi" with the Vlachs, because the "Volokhi" were actually Franks who occupied Pannonia, but the Hungarians expelled them during the Conquest. But Spinei, Pop and other historians write that "Russian Primary Chronicle" confirms Anonymus's report of the Hungarians' fight against the Vlachs. Madgearu, who does not associate the "Volokhi" with the Vlachs, emphasizes that Anonymous "had no interest to invent the presence of the [Vlachs] in Transylvania in the 10th century, because if [Vlachs] had indeed arrived there in the 12th century, his readers would not have believed this assertion". Györffy says that the Vlachs, Cumans, Czechs and other peoples whose presence in the late-9th-century Carpathian Basin cannot be proven based on sources from the same period reflects the situation of the late 13th century.The "Gesta" contains a prologue and 57 chapters.In the prologue, Anonymus introduced himself and declared that he decided to write his work to put in writing the early history of the Hungarians and their conquest of the Carpathian Basin. In addition, he stated that he wanted to write of the genealogy of the royal Árpád dynasty and of the noble families of the Kingdom of Hungary.The first seven chapters describe the Hungarians' legendary homelandmentioned as Scythia or "Dentumoger"and their departure from there. According to Macartney, the first chapter was based on the late 11th-century "Hungarian Chronicle", and it contains interpolations from the "Exordia Scythica" and Regino of Prüm's chronicle. The second chapter explains that the Hungarians were named after "Hunguar" (present-day Uzhhorod in Ukraine). The third chapter preserved the totemistic pre-Christian tradition of the origin of the Árpád dynasty, narrating Emese's dream of the falcon impregnating her before the birth of her son, Álmos. The next section describes Álmos, mentioning that he was "more powerful and wiser than all the princes of Scythia", which may have derived from oral tradition or from the common wording of contemporaneous legal documents. The fifth chapter writes of the election of Álmos as "the leader and master" of the Hungarians, mentioning a blood-mingling ceremony. In this section, Anonymus states that the Hungarians "chose to seek for themselves the land of Pannonia that they had heard from rumor had been the land of King Attila" whom Anonymus describes as Álmos's forefather. The next chapter narrates the oath that the leaders of the Hungarians took after Álmos's election, including the confirmation of the hereditary right of Álmos's descendants to rule and the right of his electors and his electors' offspring to hold the highest offices in the realm. In the seventh chapter, Anonymus writes of the Hungarians' departure from Scythia and their route across the river "Etil" and "Russia which is called Suzdal" to Kiev.The next four sections of the "Gesta" describe the fights of the Hungarians with the Rus' people and the "Cumans". Anonymus's report of the Hungarians' passing by Kiev was based on the ancient "Hungarian Chronicle", according to Macartney. References to the Hungarians' march by Kiev towards the Carpathian Basin can also be found in the "Russian Primary Chronicle", and in Simon of Kéza's and Henry of Mügeln's chronicles. In an attempt to make his work more entertaining, Anonymus supplemented this information with vivid battle-scenes borrowed from the "Trojan History" and the romances about Alexander the Great, according to Macartney. Anonymus mentions an alliance between the Rus' people and the "Cumans" against the Hungarians. Macartney, Györffy, Spinei and many other historians agree that he misinterpreted the Hungarian word "kun", which originally designated all nomadic Turkic peoples, and wrongly identified the "Kuns" mentioned in one of his sources with the Cumans of his age. The latter had at least twice supported the Rus' princes against the Hungarian monarchs in the 12th century, which explains Anonymus's mistake. The ninth chapter of the "Gesta" describes the submission of the Rus' and "Cuman" princes to Álmos. Anonymus also writes how seven Cuman chieftains joined the Hungarians, which may have preserved the memory of the integration of the Kabars in the Hungarian tribal alliance based on oral tradition of the noble families of Kabar origin, according to Györffy.The existence of a sole manuscript of the "Gesta Hungarorum" shows that the chronicle "was not very popular during either its author's lifetime or the subsequent centuries", according to historian Florin Curta. Later chronicles did not use the "Gesta", suggesting that Anonymus's contemporaries knew that he had invented most details of his account of the Hungarian Conquest, according to Gyula Kristó. For instance, Friar Julian and his Dominican brethren studied "The Deeds of the Christian Hungarians" instead of Anonymus's work before departing for the ancient homeland of the Magyars in the early 1230s.The "Gesta" was first published as the first volume of the series "Scriptures rerum Hungaricarum" in 1746 by Johann Georg von Schwandtner. Matthias Bél wrote a preface to this first edition. Professors of the Universities of Halle and Göttingen soon raised their doubts about the reliability of the "Gesta", emphasizing, for instance, the anachronistic description of the Rus' principalities. The Slovak scholar Juraj Sklenár dismissed Anonymus's work in the 1780s, pointing out that Anonymus failed to mention Great Moravia..When demanding the emancipation of the Romanians of Transylvania in the late 18th century, the authors of the "Supplex Libellus Valachorum" referred to Anonymus's work. Anonymus's three heroesGelou, Glad and Menumorutplay a preeminent role in Romanian historiography. Romanian historians have always presented them as Romanian rulers whose presence in the "Gesta" proves the existence of Romanian polities in the territory of present-day Romania at the time of the Hungarian Conquest. The Romanian government even published a full-page advertisement about the reliability of Anonymus's reference to the Romanians in the "New York Times" in 1987.The view of modern historians on the "Gesta Hungarorum" is mixed: some consider it a reliable source; others consider its information doubtful. Alexandru Madgearu, who wrote a monography of the "Gesta Hungarorum", concluded that the "analysis of several fragments of" the Gesta Hungarorum "has demonstrated that this work is generally credible, even if it ignores important events and characters and even if it makes some chronological mistakes". According to Neagu Djuvara, the factual accuracy of Anonymus's work is likely high, because it is the earliest preserved Hungarian chronicle and is based on even older Hungarian chronicles. On the other hand, Carlile Aylmer Macartney described Anonymus's work as "the most famous, the most obscure, the most exasperating and most misleading of all the early Hungarian texts" in his book of medieval Hungarian historians. Paul Robert Magocsi also regarded the "Gesta" as an unreliable work.
ElmoreElmore may refer to:
Greek National Road 3Greek National Road 3 (, abbreviated as EO3) is a single carriageway road in Greece. It connects Eleusis near Athens with the border of North Macedonia at Niki. It passes through Larissa and Florina. At Niki, it connects with the M5K motorway to Bitola. Greek National Road 3 is one of the longest highways in Greece and until the 1960s it served as the main route from Larissa to Thessaloniki. The new A1 motorway now offers a faster connection to Thessaloniki. Most of the EO3, except the southernmost section between Eleusis and Bralos, is part of the E65.Throughout the late 1980s, motorway bypasses were constructed at the towns of Tyrnavos and Elassonas, but in 2002 plans surfaced to convert all of the road into a new motorway, from Larissa to Kozani and further on to Bitola, in North Macedonia. Throughout the 2000s motorway sections were delivered to the public and are running north of Larissa and north of Kozani, up to Ptolemaida. Remaining parts have either fallen through, as no construction works are currently being undertaken and no further announcements have been delivered by the government.The highway passes through and along the following places:
Nudelman-Suranov NS-23The NS-23 was a aircraft cannon designed by A. E. Nudelman, A. Suranov, G. Zhirnykh, V. Nemenov, S. Lunin, and M. Bundin during World War II as a replacement for the Volkov-Yartsev VYa-23 cannon. It entered service in 1944. The NS-23 round was derived from the 14.5×114mm anti-tank round by necking it out to 23 mm.A synchronized version, designated NS-23S (for "synchronized"), was used for fixed installations firing through the propeller arc.Applications of the NS-23 included the Antonov An-2, Ilyushin Il-10, Ilyushin Il-22, Lavochkin La-9, La-15, MiG-9, Yak-9UT, Yak-15, Yak-17, Yak-23, and Tu-4. Some early MiG-15s were also equipped with the NS-23.The NS-23 was replaced in service by the Nudelman-Rikhter NR-23 around 1949.
EpesEpes may refer to:
EufaulaEufaula may refer to:
DAMA/NaIThe experimental set-up was located deep underground in the Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso in Italy.The experimental set-up was made by nine 9.70 kg low-radioactivity scintillating thallium-doped sodium iodide crystals [NaI(Tl)]. Each crystal was faced by two low-background photomultipliers through 10 cm light guides. The detectors were installed inside a sealed copper box flushed with highly pure nitrogen in order to insulate the detectors from air that contains trace amounts of radon, a radioactive gas. To reduce the natural environmental background the copper box is enclosed inside a multicomponent multi-ton passive shield made of copper, lead, polyethylene/paraffin, cadmium foil. A plexiglas box encloses the whole shield and is also kept in a highly pure nitrogen atmosphere. A concrete neutron moderator 1 m thick largely surrounds the set-up.The DAMA/NaI set-up observed the annual modulation signature over 7 annual cycles (1995–2002). The presence of a model independent positive evidence in the data of DAMA/NaI was first reported by the DAMA collaboration in Fall 1997 and published beginning of 1998. The final paper with the full results was published in 2003 after the end of experiment in July 2002. Various corollary investigations are continuing and have also been published.The model-independent evidence is compatible with a wide set of scenarios regarding the nature of the dark matter candidate and related astrophysical, nuclear and particle physics For example: neutralinos, inelastic dark matter, Self-interacting dark matter, and heavy 4th generation neutrinosA careful quantitative investigation of possible sources of systematic and side reactions has been regularly carried out and published at the time of each data release. No systematic effect or side reaction able to account for the observed modulation amplitude and to simultaneously satisfy all the requirements of the signature has been found.The experiment has also obtained and published many results on other processes and/or approaches.Negative results from the XENON Dark Matter Search Experiment seem to contradict DAMA/Nal's results.The COSINE-100 collaboration has been working in Korea towards confirming or refuting the DAMA-signal. They are using similar experimental setup to DAMA (NaI(Ti)-crystals). They published their results in December 2018 in the journal Nature; their conclusion was that their "result rules out WIMP–nucleon interactions as the cause of the annual modulation observed by the DAMA collaboration". DAMA/NaI has been replaced by the new generation experiment, DAMA/LIBRA. These experiments are carried out by Italian and Chinese researchers.
ConcourseA concourse is a place where pathways or roads meet, such as in a hotel, a convention center, a railway station, an airport terminal, a hall, or other space.The term is not limited to places where there are literally pathways or roadways or train tracks joining. An alternate meaning now is "an open space or hall (as in a railway terminal) where crowds gather." In this meaning as a place where crowds gather, while many persons in any crowd no doubt have followed different paths in their lives to get to the place, there need not be notable specific roadways leading to the place.Examples of concourses include:More recently, "concourse" is often used to refer to a situation where people come together in online presence, even if they don't come together in real physical life. An example of such an online community is the IEEE Student Concourse, as well as various online shopping concourses.
EutawEutaw may refer to:
Philip CornerPhilip Lionel Corner (born April 10, 1933; name sometimes given as Phil Corner) is an American composer, trombonist, alphornist, vocalist, pianist, music theorist, music educator, and visual artist.After The High School of Music & Art in New York City, Philip Corner received his BA (1955) at CCNY, where his most important teacher was Fritz Jahoda; and an MA (1959) from Columbia University where his composition teachers were Otto Luening and Henry Cowell, The two years in between (1955–57) were spent in Paris at the Conservatoire Nat'l de Musique, following the class "Philosophie Musicale" of Olivier Messiaen. Equally important was his friendship with the Canadian painter Paul-Emile Borduas, who introduced him to "la grande aventure nord-américaine", to which he returned and became part of the group around John Cage. At the same time he resumed his studies of the piano with Dorothy Taubman, which was to have a significant role in his compositional as well as performing life. He taught Modern Music at the New School for Social Research from 1967–1970, inheriting the class founded by John Cage at double remove after Richard Maxfield, with whom he was teaching assistant, and Malcolm Goldstein. His teaching career started at a New York City high school and continued at the New Lincoln School where he helped develop the music department and introduced innovative courses (1966–1972). During this period he was married to the astrologer and trance medium Julie Winter who was also a minister in the Church of Religious Science, with which he too was associated, composing music to be sung at meditation sessions. From 1972 to 1992 he continued as professor at the newly established Livingston College, a part of Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, soon to be absorbed into the Mason Gross School of the Arts. He then took early retirement and moved to Reggio Emilia, Italy where he had previous contact through the Pari e Dispari "Arte Club Internazionale". An early friend, the dancer and choreographer Phoebe Neville, joined him there and became his wife and performance partner.He was a founding participant of Fluxus since 1961, was a resident composer and musician with the Judson Dance Theatre from 1962 to 1964 and later with the Experimental Intermedia Foundation upon the invitation of Elaine Summers, for whose dance company he served as musician. He co-founded with Malcolm Goldstein and James Tenney the Tone Roads Chamber Ensemble in 1963 (active until 1970), with Julie Winter Sounds Out of Silent Spaces in 1972 (active until 1979) and with Barbara Benary and Daniel Goode, Gamelan Son of Lion in 1976 (still active).Corner became interested in calligraphy during military service in Korea in 1960–1961 and studied it with Ki-sung Kim; it is often incorporated into his scores. While there he became enamored with Korean traditional music, particularly the "jeongak" composition" Sujecheon", which he describes as "the most beautiful piece of music in the history of the world." Many of his scores are open-ended in that some elements are specified, but others are left partially or entirely to the discretion of the performers. Some employ standard notation, whereas others are graphic scores, text scores, etc. His music also frequently explores unintentional sound, chance activities, minimalism, and non-Western instruments and tuning systems. Improvisation is important, though not exclusive; some "performance proposals" lead to a kind of ecstatic semi-trance. Contact with artists in other media, especially dance and the visual arts, as well as a long-standing interest in Eastern religions such as Zen Buddhism and study of the music of composers from the Baroque and Pre-Baroque eras, has likewise impacted his music.Representative works include the ensemble pieces "Passionate Expanse of the Law", "Sang-teh/Situations" and "Through the Mysterious Barricade", among many others. Also in his incredibly large oeuvre are piano pieces ("perfect", "Pictures of Pictures from Pictures of Pictures"), choral works ("Peace, be still"), electronic music (the war cantata "Oracle"), and more than 400 works in the "Gamelan" series, to mention only some of his catalogue. He divides his output into five periods, each one reflective of his attitudes at the time:Frog Peak Music, a Composer's Collective, has undertaken to make as much as possible of his opera omnia available by on-order photocopy publication.In addition to his work as a composer and musician, he has created numerous assemblages, calligraphy, collages, drawings, and paintings, many of which have been exhibited internationally. He has also written much poetry, which like some of his music, has occasionally appeared under his Korean pseudonym Gwan Pok, meaning "Contemplating Waterfall".Editions in silk-screen have been brought out by the Archivio F. Conz, Verona, and Pari e Dispari Agency in Reggio Emilia, among others.Works are regularly exhibited in galleries, mostly in Europe, and are in notable museum collections.His principal gallery is UnimediaModern in Genova, whose director Caterina Gualco maintains a large collection. Other important collectors are Hermann Braun in Germany (deceased 2009) and Luigi Bonotto in Bassano who maintains an extensive documentation.During "Mississippi Freedom Summer 1964" and for some of the following year, Corner was a civil rights volunteer and Freedom School teacher in Meridian, Miss. "Mark Levy Collection. Queens College/CUNY Rosenthal Library Civil Rights Archive." In 1968, Corner signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.in production as of 2009 are recordings from die Schachtel, Pogus, A Silent Place, Locust, and more from Alga Marghen.
Tales from the PunchbowlTales from the Punchbowl is the fourth studio album by the American rock band Primus, released on June 6, 1995. It was the band's last album with Tim Alexander before he rejoined Primus seven years later, and again in September 2013. It was certified Gold on July 20, 1995.In 1996 the album was re-released as an Enhanced CD for Macintosh and Windows. As printed on the back inlay for this version, "Combining high end production values, 3-D graphics, spectacular effects and loads of insanely cool stuff, the 'Tales From The Punchbowl' Enhanced CD, played on a CD-ROM drive, sends the viewer through a surreal virtual experience that features the complete album in CD sound quality (which you can hear on a stereo CD player as well)." Players must "navigate from the helm of Captain Shiner's ferryboat through an enchanted liquid atmosphere to many strange and mysterious islands. Many experiences are to be had, all in a rose-colored waterworld filled with visuals reminiscent of Dalí and Bosch." Printed on the actual CD is a ship helm instead of the large image of Captain Shiner's face that appeared on the original, more common pressing.The vinyl cover shows a picture of the band members dressed up as penguins standing on an iceberg. The same picture comes with the CD version, on the first page of the booklet at the front.In his review for AllMusic, Daniel Gioffre describes the album as "unabashed prog rock... which even the thick dollops of irony that the band seeks to impart to its compositions are unable to mask completely." He also says that "the high-energy angular rhythms that Primus is known and loved for are as present as ever; they are just pulled off with greater zest and looser precision (if there is such a thing) than they have in the past", concluding that ""Tales From the Punchbowl" is one of Primus' finer discs." Robert Christgau describes the album simply as "modern teen horrors simplified–and funkified." Chuck Eddy of "Entertainment Weekly" gave the album a B and said, "Hearing Les Claypool thwap oppressive bass lines while rapping like a congested auctioneer isn't nearly as entertaining as watching this trio fish for bass on MTV.""Tales from the Punchbowl" was nearly as successful as "Pork Soda", and peaked at number eight on the "Billboard" 200, making it Primus' second-highest chart position. It is also the band's last studio album to be certified gold by the RIAA.
TriakelTriakel is a Swedish folk band. They mostly perform old Swedish folk songs, particularly those from the Jämtland area, but also include songs by contemporary folk artists.Triakel was founded in 1995 by Emma Härdelin (Garmarna), Kjell-Erik Eriksson (Hoven Droven) and Janne Strömstedt (former Hoven Droven member); Eriksson and Strömstedt had to perform together using only the fiddle and harmonium on New Year's Eve 1994 following a lost bet, and the performance was so successful that they decided to continue with the project. Härdelin later on joined the newly formed band as the singer, and the name ""Triakel"" (a kind of sweet, black liquorice in the Swedish dialect of Jämtland; the word is etymologically related to the English "treacle") was chosen after a long discussion.
Sant (religion)In Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism, a sant is a human being revered for his or her knowledge of "self, truth, reality" and as a "truth-exemplar". In Sikhism it is used to describe a being who has attained spiritual enlightenment and divine knowledge and power through the union with the monotheistic God."Sant" is sometimes translated as "saint", but this is a false cognate (there is no etymological commonality). "Sant" is derived from the Sanskrit root "sat", which can mean "truth, reality, essence", and saint is derived from Latin "sanctus", which means "holy, sacred", from Indo-European root "sak-", "to sanctify"Schomer and McLeod explain "Sant" as preceptor of "Sat" or "truth, reality", in the sense of "'one who knows the truth' or 'one who has experienced Ultimate Reality', that is a person who has achieved a state of spiritual enlightenment or mystical self-realisation". William Pinch suggests the best translation of "sant" is "truth-exemplar"."Sant" differs from "saint" not merely in the etymological sense but also in usage. The word is used in various contexts:CitationsBibliography
Jakob Amsler-LaffonJakob Amsler-Laffon (11 November 1823 – 3 January 1912) was a mathematician, physicist, engineer and the founder of his own factory. Amsler was born on the Stalden near the village of Schinznach in the district of Brugg, canton Aargau, and died in Schaffhausen, Switzerland. His father was Jakob Amsler-Amsler (1779–1869).On graduating from school in 1843, he went to the University of Jena and then to the University of Königsberg to study theology. At Königsberg he changed courses, deciding to focus on mathematics and physics after meeting the inspiring Franz Neumann. Among Amsler's fellow students at Königsberg were Gustav Robert Kirchhoff and Siegfried Heinrich Aronhold. Amsler gained his doctorate from Königsberg in 1848 and returned to Switzerland in the same year. In 1851 he became a Privatdozent at the University of Zürich and later in that year accepted a position as a mathematics teacher at the Gymnasium in Schaffhausen. In 1854 Amsler married Elise Laffon (1830–1899). The couple had two daughters and three sons. Their oldest son Alfred Amsler (1857–1940) was a mathematician and engineer in his own right and succeeded to his father as the owner and director of the factory. From about 1885 until about 1905, father and son closely cooperated on many projects in their business; many of their ideas, inventions and constructions of the time are difficult to attribute to either one of them.Jakob Amsler-Laffon invented the polar planimeter in 1854.
Governor of PitcairnThe Governor of Pitcairn is the representative of the British monarch in the Pitcairn Islands, the last remaining British Overseas Territory in the Pacific Ocean. Pitcairn has considerable local autonomy, but is under the authority of the colonial governor.Because of the dependency's small population (it peaked at 233 in the 1930s, and has since dwindled to 50), the British never considered it worthwhile to station a resident governor on Pitcairn. Instead, the Governor of Fiji doubled as governor of Pitcairn from 1898 onward. When Fiji became independent in 1970, the governorship of Pitcairn was transferred to the British high commissioner to New Zealand. The office is currently held by Laura Clarke.Throughout most of its history, the authority of the British governor was, in practice, nominal. However, Richard Fell, governor of the Pitcairn Islands between 2001 and 2006, used the authority vested in him to dismiss the mayor Steve Christian, involved in the Pitcairn rape trial of 2004.
Marwan MuasherMarwan al-Muasher () (born 1956) is a Jordanian diplomat and politician who was Jordan's foreign minister from 2002 to 2004 and its deputy prime minister during 2004 and 2005. He currently serves as vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, where he oversees research on the Middle East. He was Jordan's first ambassador to Israel and former ambassador to the United States.Muasher attended Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, where he earned a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering in 1977, a master of science degree in computer engineering in 1978, and a Ph.D., also in computer engineering, in 1981.Muasher began his career working as a journalist for the "Jordan Times", the only Jordanian newspaper in the English language. He then entered government service, working in communications in the Ministry of Planning, at the prime minister's office as press adviser, and as director of the Jordan Information Bureau in Washington, D.C.In 1995, following the 1994 Israel–Jordan peace treaty, Muasher became Jordan's first ambassador to Israel. Then, in 1996, he became minister of information and the government spokesperson. From 1997 to 2002, he served in Washington, D.C., again as ambassador to the United States, and helped negotiate the Jordan–U.S. Free Trade Agreement, the first free-trade agreement the United States signed with an Arab country.He returned to Jordan in January 2002 to serve as foreign minister, where he played a central role in developing the Arab Peace Initiative and the Middle East roadmap. He served until October 2004, when he gained the post of deputy prime minister in a cabinet reshuffle under former Prime Minister Adnan Badran that sought to continue reform and shrink the bureaucracy. He served as the deputy prime minister until November 2005. In 2005 he developed the National Agenda, a long-term political, economic and social reform plan for Jordan. The making up of the plan involved 450 Jordanian stakeholders and experts giving solutions and deadlines to implement them. The National Agenda was never actually realized because, according to Muasher, it was thwarted by a group of political elites and bureaucrats, eager to keep a rentier-based state system, rather than one based on merit. According to Sultan Sooud Al-Qassemi, al-Muasher, a Christian, was dropped from the post to please the Jordanian Muslim Brotherhood.From 2006 to 2007, he was a member of the Jordanian Senate.From March 2007 to 2010, he served as senior vice president of external affairs at the World Bank.He currently serves as vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, where he oversees research on the Middle East from Washington, D.C., and Beirut, Lebanon. In 2011 Muasher took seat in the advisory council of The Hague Institute for Global Justice.He is the author of two books:Recipient of awards, including Jordanian Independence Medal and the Order of the Star of Jordan.
Philip Cunliffe-Lister, 1st Earl of SwintonPhilip Cunliffe-Lister, 1st Earl of Swinton, (1 May 1884 – 27 July 1972), known as Philip Lloyd-Greame until 1924 and as The Viscount Swinton between 1935 and 1955, was a prominent British Conservative politician from the 1920s until the 1950s.Beginning life as Philip Lloyd-Greame, he was the younger son of Lieutenant-Colonel Yarburgh George Lloyd-Greame (1840–1928) of Sewerby House, Bridlington, Yorkshire, by his wife Dora Letitia O'Brien, a daughter of the Right Reverend James Thomas O'Brien, Bishop of Ossory. His paternal grandfather was Yarburgh Gamaliel Lloyd, later Lloyd-Greame (1813–1890), who inherited Sewerby House by the will of his maternal uncle Yarburgh Greame, later Yarburgh (1782–1856).He was educated at Winchester College, an all-boys public school in Winchester. He studied law at University College, Oxford, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1905. Then became an Honorary Fellow of his college and was admitted to the Inner Temple.He joined the British Army in 1914, following the start of the First World War. He was mentioned in despatches and promoted to the rank of Major. In 1916, he was awarded the Military Cross (MC) while serving on the Western Front as a brigade major to the 124th Brigade of the 41st Division. During the war, Cunliffe-Lister spent time with Winston Churchill at his advanced HQ Lawrence Farm. They later worked together in the Stanley Baldwin ministries of the 1920s, when Cunliffe-Lister served as a minister of state. In 1917 he was appointed joint secretary to the Minister of National Service. He was noticed by David Lloyd George, who recruited the young man to be chairman of the Labour sub-committee of the war cabinet in Downing Street. At the end of the war, he stood as a Conservative candidate in the Coupon election of 1918.He agreed to join the Coalition slate and was elected for Hendon. He would hold this seat until his elevation to the House of Lords in 1935. His strong intellect was immediately recognizable as a member of the National Expenditure select committee scrutinizing the controversial McKenna Duties and Homes Fit For Heroes, after which in 1920 he was knighted.He achieved his first ministerial post as Additional Under-Secretary Foreign Affairs in 1920 and took charge of the Overseas Trade Department in 1921 as Additional Parliamentary Secretary. In 1922 he became a Privy Counsellor and was appointed President of the Board of Trade, an office he would hold with two breaks until 1931. This fast elevation to the Cabinet came about because of the collapse of the Lloyd George Coalition Government, which forced the new Prime Minister Bonar Law to promote many inexperienced MPs.In 1923, Law was forced to resign due to failing health and there was discussion as to whether he would be succeeded by Stanley Baldwin or Lord Curzon. As the last survivor of Law's Cabinet, Lloyd-Greame would later assert that it was Cabinet hostility to Curzon that prevented his appointment as Prime Minister, when he returned from the Imperial Economic Council. On 27 November 1924 Lloyd-Greame changed his surname to Cunliffe-Lister so as to be able to inherit property from his wife's family. Raised to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire in 1929.In 1931 Cunliffe-Lister was one of the Conservatives chosen to negotiate with the Labour Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald as the latter's government collapsed and was replaced by the multi-party National Government. As a sign of his prominence within the party, Cunliffe-Lister was one of just four Conservatives in the emergency Cabinet of 10, serving for the third and final time as President of the Board of Trade.The National Government won a massive election victory in the 1931 general election but was internally divided on the question of protective tariffs. So as to balance the Cabinet Cunliffe-Lister was replaced at the Board of Trade by the supposed Free Trader Walter Runciman, and instead became Secretary of State for the Colonies, which he would hold until June 1935. When MacDonald retired as Prime Minister and was succeed by Stanley Baldwin a Cabinet reshuffle took place in which Cunliffe-Lister became Secretary of State for Air. At the 1935 general election he did not contest his seat and was instead ennobled as Viscount Swinton, retaining his ministerial office for the next three years into the premiership of Neville Chamberlain he took the strategic post of Secretary of State for Air responsible for Britain air defences in the lead up to war.As Swinton was now in the House of Lords his hands were free to be Chairman of the UK Commercial Corporation responsible for boosting enterprise and output. So Chamberlain appointed the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Lord Winterton (an Irish peer who sat in the House of Commons) to speak for the Air Ministry in the Commons. This arrangement did not prove successful and in May 1938 there was a disastrous debate on air and it became clear to Chamberlain that the Secretary of State must sit in the House of Commons. Swinton was dismissed, his political career seemingly over.After serving as Minister Resident in West Africa and being made a Companion of Honour in 1943, during the Second World War Swinton's career revived when he was appointed as the first Minister of Civil Aviation, a post he held until the end of the war. During 1944 he served on the Executive Committee and on the Steering Committee at the Convention on International Civil Aviation done in Chicago, formally representing the United Kingdom.When Winston Churchill formed his peacetime government in 1951 he appointed Swinton as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and Minister for War Materials a year later. As Deputy Leader of the House of Lords Lord Swinton was also Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations for three years. When in 1955 Churchill retired, Swinton insisted on retiring too, and he was further ennobled as the Earl of Swinton. Towards the end of his life, Swinton was an Honorary Fellow of University College, Oxford.Philip Lloyd-Greame married Mary Constance "Molly" Boynton (died 1974) on 5 September 1912. She was the granddaughter of industrialist Samuel Cunliffe-Lister, 1st Baron Masham who had bought the castle in 1882. In 1924, Philip and Molly Lloyd-Greame took the name of Cunliffe-Lister and moved to Swinton Park (sold in 1980 by the 2nd Earl and bought back 2000 by his nephew, Lord Masham and the latter's family).Their elder son, John, was killed in the Second World War, leaving two sons of his own, of whom the elder grandson succeeded his grandfather as the 2nd Earl of Swinton, and was succeeded 2006 by his younger brother as the 3rd Earl of Swinton. The third Earl has two sons, both of whom are now married.
Line Mode BrowserThe Line Mode Browser (also known as LMB, WWWLib, or just www) is the second web browser ever created.The browser was the first demonstrated to be portable to several different operating systems.Operated from a simple command-line interface, it could be widely used on many computers and computer terminals throughout the Internet.The browser was developed starting in 1990, and then supported by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) as an example and test application for the libwww library.One of the fundamental concepts of the "World Wide Web" projects at CERN was "universal readership". In 1990, Tim Berners-Lee had already written the first browser, WorldWideWeb (later renamed to "Nexus"), but that program only worked on the proprietary software of NeXT computers, which were in limited use. Berners-Lee and his team could not port the WorldWideWeb application with its features—including the graphical WYSIWYG editor— to the more widely deployed X Window System, since they had no experience in programming it. The team recruited Nicola Pellow, a math student intern working at CERN, to write a "passive browser" so basic that it could run on most computers of that time.The name "Line Mode Browser" refers to the fact that, to ensure compatibility with the earliest computer terminals such as Teletype machines, the program only displayed text, (no images) and had only line-by-line text input (no cursor positioning).Development started in November 1990 and the browser was demonstrated in December 1990.The development environment used resources from the PRIAM project, a French language acronym for "PRojet Interdivisionnaire d'Assistance aux Microprocesseurs", a project to standardise microprocessor development across CERN.The short development time produced software in a simplified dialect of the C programming language. The official standard ANSI C was not yet available on all platforms.The Line Mode Browser was released to a limited audience on VAX, RS/6000 and Sun-4 computers in March 1991. Before the release of the first publicly available version, it was integrated into the CERN Program Library (CERNLIB), used mostly by the High-Energy Physics-community. The first beta of the browser was released on 8 April 1991. Berners-Lee announced the browser's availability in August 1991 in the "alt.hypertext" newsgroup of Usenet.Users could use the browser from anywhere in the Internet through the telnet protocol to the "info.cern.ch" machine (which was also the first web server).The spreading news of the World Wide Web in 1991 increased interest in the project at CERN and other laboratories such as DESY in Germany, and elsewhere throughout the world.The first stable version, 1.1, was released in January 1992. Since version 1.2l, released in October 1992, the browser has used the "common code library" (later called libwww). The main developer, Pellow, started working on the MacWWW project, and both browsers began to share some source code. In the "May 1993 World Wide Web Newsletter" Berners-Lee announced that the browser was released into the public domain to reduce the work on new clients. On 21 March 1995, with the release of version 3.0, CERN put the full responsibility for maintaining the Line Mode Browser on the W3C. The Line Mode Browser and the libwww library are closely tied together—the last independent release of a separate browser component was in 1995, and the browser became part of libwww.The Agora World Wide Web email browser was based on the Line Mode Browser. The Line Mode Browser was very popular in the beginning of the web, since it was the only web browser available for all operating systems. Statistics from January 1994 show that Mosaic had quickly changed the web browser landscape and only 2% of all World Wide Web users browsed by Line Mode Browser. The new niche of text-only web browser was filled by Lynx, which made the Line Mode Browser largely irrelevant as a browser. One reason was that Lynx is much more flexible than the Line Mode Browser. It then became a test application for the libwww.The simplicity of the Line Mode Browser had several limitations.The Line Mode Browser was designed to work on any operating system using what were called "dumb" terminals. The user interface had to be as simple as possible. The user began with a command-line interface specifying a Uniform Resource Locator (URL). The requested web page was then printed line by line on the screen, like a teleprinter. Websites were displayed using the first versions of HTML. Formatting was achieved with capitalization, indentation, and new lines. Header elements were capitalized, centered and separated from the normal text by empty lines.Navigation was not controlled by a pointing device such as a mouse or arrow keys, but by text commands typed into the program.Numbers in brackets are displayed for each link; links are opened by typing the corresponding number into the program.This led one journalist of the time to write: "The Web is a way of finding information by typing numbers."The page scrolled down when an empty command (carriage return) was entered, and scrolled up with the command "codice_1". The command "codice_2" navigated backwards in history, and new pages were navigated with "codice_3" (for "go to") and the URL.The browser had no authoring functions, so pages could only be read and not edited. This was considered to be unfortunate by Robert Cailliau, one of the developers: "I think in retrospect the biggest mistake made in the whole project was the public release of the Line-Mode Browser. It gave the Internet hackers immediate access, but only from the point of view of the passive browser — no editing capabilities"The Line Mode Browser was designed to be able to be platform independent. There are official ports to Apollo/Domain, IBM RS6000, DECStation/ultrix, VAX/VMS, VAX/Ultrix, MS-DOS, Unix, Windows, Classic Mac OS, Linux, MVS, VM/CMS, FreeBSD, Solaris, and to macOS. The browser supports many protocols like File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Gopher, Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP), and Wide area information server (WAIS).Other features included rlogin and telnet hyperlinks, Cyrillic support (added at 25 November 1994 in version 2.15), and ability to be set up as a proxy client. The browser could run as a background process and download files. The Line Mode Browser has had problems recognizing character entities, properly collapsing whitespace, and supporting tables and frames.
Capsian cultureThe Capsian culture was a Mesolithic and Neolithic culture centered in the Maghreb that lasted from about 8,000 to 2,700 BC. It was named after the town of Gafsa in Tunisia, which was Capsa in Roman times.The Capsian industry was concentrated mainly in modern Tunisia and Algeria, with some lithic sites attested from southern Spain to Sicily. It is traditionally divided into two horizons, the "Capsien typique" (Typical Capsian) and the "Capsien supérieur" (Upper Capsian), which are sometimes found in chronostratigraphic sequence. Sometimes third period "Capsian Neolithic" (6,200-5,300 BP) is also specified. They represent variants of one tradition, the differences between them being both typological and technological.During this period, the environment of the Maghreb was open savanna, much like modern East Africa, with Mediterranean forests at higher altitudes. The Capsian diet included a wide variety of animals, ranging from aurochs and hartebeest to hares and snails; there is little evidence concerning plants eaten. During the succeeding Neolithic of Capsian Tradition, there is evidence from one site, for domesticated, probably imported, ovicaprids.Anatomically, Capsian populations were modern "Homo sapiens", traditionally classed into two variegate types: Proto-Mediterranean and Mechta-Afalou on the basis of cranial morphology. Some have argued that they were immigrants from the east (Natufians), whereas others argue for population continuity based on physical skeletal characteristics and other criteria, "et cetera".Given the Capsian culture's timescale, widespread occurrence in the Sahara, and association with modern speakers of the Afroasiatic languages, historical linguists have tentatively associated the industry with the Afroasiatic family's earliest speakers on the continent.Nothing is known about Capsian religion, but their burial methods suggest a belief in an afterlife. Decorative art is widely found at their sites, including figurative and abstract rock art, and ochre is found coloring both tools and corpses. Ostrich eggshells were used to make beads and containers; seashells were used for necklaces. The Ibero-Maurusian practice of extracting the central incisors continued sporadically, but became rarer.The Eburran industry which dates between 13,000 and 9,000 BC in East Africa, was formerly known as the "Kenya Capsian" due to similarities in the stone blade shapes.
Hani MulkiHani Fawzi Mulki (also known as Hani Mulki; ; ""; born 15 October 1951) is a Jordanian politician that held several ministerial and diplomatic positions, and he was Chief Commissioner of the Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority before his designation as Prime Minister by King Abdullah II and approval by the House of Representatives on 29 May 2016. Mulki served as Prime Minister until he submitted his resignation on 4 June 2018 after protests had swept the country because of his government's IMF-backed austerity measures that aimed to tackle Jordan's growing public debt. The measures would raise the price of goods and services, as well as hike the tax rate.Born in Amman in 1951, Mulki received a bachelor's degree in production engineering in Egypt in 1974 and pursued his Masters and Doctoral degrees from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.He served as Jordan's ambassador to Egypt and as Jordan's permanent representative at the Arab League. He has held several ministerial positions; water, energy, supplies, industry and foreign affairs ministries.Mulki chaired the negotiating committee which produced the Israel-Jordan peace treaty between Jordan and Israel in 1994. During his time as foreign minister, Jordan experienced diplomatic issues with both Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Mulki was appointed as Scientific Advisor to the King, and then a member of the Senate. On 9 February 2011, Mulki was reappointed as Minister of Trade and Industries. On 9 November 2014, he was appointed Chief Commissioner of the Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority, replacing Kamel Mahadin. On 29 May 2016, Mulki was appointed as the Prime Minister of Jordan, succeeding Abdullah Ensour. His cabinet was sworn in on 1 June. After the 2016 general election Mulki order a cabinet reshuffle, which resulted in three new portfolios, 22 ministers remaining and the introduction of 7 new ministers.Rising Jordanian public debt led Mulki in 2016 to negotiate a 3-year program $732 million loan facility with the International Monetary Fund, which would see the public debt falling from 95% of the GDP to 77% by 2021. The austerity program raised prices on several food staples in 2016 and 2017, making him very unpopular in the country. A 22 March 2018 report by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace commented on Mulki's policies: "Mulki declared openly that his predecessors had left the country at the brink of insolvency and that the failure to take tough revenue-raising measure would lead to a debt crisis which would destroy the country. And he is correct. What is more doubtful is Mulki’s assertion that Jordan “will get out of the bottleneck” in 2019. While the measures to raise taxes and reduce subsidies buy time, they leave Jordan struggling to stay afloat and dependent on the continued flow of extensive aid."A nationwide strike organized by trade unions on 30 May 2018 in protest of Mulki's government presenting amendments to the 2014 income tax law to Parliament. The next day, his government raised fuel and electricity prices in response to rising international oil prices, prompting crowds of protestors to pour in the 4th circle near the Prime Ministry in Amman. King Abdullah intervened on 1 June and ordered the freeze of price hikes. Mulki's cabinet acquiesced but said the decision would cost the treasury $20 million. Despite the freeze, widespread protests continued due to the tax law. He submitted his resignation on 4 June 2018 and was succeeded by Omar Razzaz, his education minister.
Wolf–Hirschhorn syndromeWolf–Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS), is a chromosomal deletion syndrome resulting from a partial deletion from the short arm of chromosome 4 (del(4p16.3)). Features include a distinct craniofacial phenotype and intellectual disability.The most common characteristics include a distinct craniofacial phenotype (microcephaly, micrognathia, short philtrum, prominent glabella, ocular hypertelorism, dysplastic ears and periauricular tags), growth restriction, intellectual disability, muscle hypotonia, seizures, and congenital heart defects. Less common characteristics include hypospadias, colobomata of the iris, renal anomalies, and deafness. Antibody deficiencies are also common, including common variable immunodeficiency and IgA deficiency. T-cell immunity is normal.Wolf–Hirschhorn syndrome is a microdeletion syndrome caused by a deletion within HSA band 4p16.3 of the short arm of chromosome 4, particularly in the region of and . About 87% of cases represent a "de novo" deletion, while about 13% are inherited from a parent with a chromosome translocation. In the cases of familial transmission, there is a 2 to 1 excess of maternal transmission. Of the "de novo" cases, 80% are paternally derived. Severity of symptoms and expressed phenotype differ based on the amount of genetic material deleted. The critical region for determining the phenotype is at 4p16.3 and can often be detected through genetic testing and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Genetic testing and genetic counseling is offered to affected families.The minimum birth incidence has been calculated as 1 in 95,896.Wolf–Hirschhorn syndrome was first described in 1961 by Americans Herbert L. Cooper and Kurt Hirschhorn and, thereafter, gained worldwide attention by publications by the German Ulrich Wolf, and Hirschhorn and their co-workers, specifically their articles in the German scientific magazine "Humangenetik".
Blaydon-on-TyneBlaydon is a town in the North East of England in the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead - historically in County Durham. Blaydon, and neighbouring Winlaton, which Blaydon is now contiguous with, form the postal town of Blaydon-on-Tyne. The Blaydon/Winlaton resident population in 2011 was 13,896.Between 1894 and 1974, Blaydon was an urban district which extended inland from the Tyne along the River Derwent for ten miles (16 km), and included the mining communities of Chopwell and High Spen, the villages of Rowlands Gill, Blackhall Mill, Barlow, Winlaton Mill and Stella, as well as Blaydon and Winlaton. During its existence, the Urban District's fourteen and a half square miles constituted the second largest administrative district by area, on Tyneside, after Newcastle upon Tyne.The town of Blaydon is essentially an industrial area and is not more than two centuries old. Indeed, in the 1760s there was little here but a few farms and cottages. In the latter part of the same century a smelting works was set up from which sprang the industrial growth of the area.Though the town itself has a relatively short history there has been activity in the area for many centuries.The earliest recorded evidence of human activity at Blaydon is a Neolithic polished stone axe found in the early 20th century. Finds and structures from later prehistoric periods include a bronze spearhead and log-boat, both recovered from the River Tyne in the 19th century. A number of Bronze Age cists are recorded from Summerhill and several others from Bewes Hill.Little is recorded of medieval Blaydon, which appears to have been based upon the modern farm sites of High and Low Shibdon. The Blaydon Burn Belts Corn Mill, part of a row of 5 or 6 water corn mills stretching from Brockwell Wood to the River Tyne is known to have been present by the early 17th century, suggesting a healthy population at that time. It is likely that, as well as farming, many industrial activities such as mining and quarrying had begun in the medieval and post-medieval periods, well before the industrial period of the 18th to 20th centuries when Blaydon became an important industrial centre.Also known as the Battle of Newburn or Newburn Ford, this relatively unknown battle has recently been elevated in importance by English Heritage. On 28 August 1640, 20,000 Scots defeated 5,500 English soldiers who were defending the ford over the Tyne four miles (6 km) west of Newcastle. The Scots had been provoked by Charles I, who had imposed bishops and a foreign prayer book on their church. The Scots army, led by Alexander Leslie, fought its way to Newcastle and occupied the city for almost a year before Charles I paid it £200,000 to depart. The battle brought to an end the so-called 'Eleven Years of Tyranny' by forcing Charles to recall Parliament. This was the last battle in Britain to feature the use of archers.The stimulus for industry at Blaydon and Blaydon burn, as elsewhere in the region, was the growth in coal mining and the coal trade, particularly from the early 18th century, when the Hazard and Speculation pits were established at Low Shibdon linked to the Tyne by wagonways. The 18th century Blaydon Main Colliery was reopened in the mid-19th century and worked until 1921. Other pits and associated features included Blaydon Burn Colliery, Freehold pit and the Blaydonburn wagonway. Industries supported by the coal trade included chemical works, bottle works, sanitary pipe works, lampblack works, an ironworks, a smithy and brickworks - Cowen's Upper and Lower Brickworks were established in 1730 and were associated with a variety of features including a clay drift mine and coal/clay drops. The Lower works remains in operation. Blaydon Burn Coke Ovens, also of 19th-century origin, were replaced in the 1930s by Priestman Ottovale Coke and Tar Works which was the first in the world to produce petrol from coal known as Blaydon Benzole.In addition to the workers’ housing developments associated with industrialisation, a number of grand residences were constructed for industrialists in the area, such as Blaydon Burn House, home of Joseph Cowen, owner of the brickworks. Ironically, the remains of Old Dockendale Hall, an earlier grand residence (or perhaps a superior farmhouse) of 17th century or earlier construction, was destroyed when the coke and tar works was built at Blaydon Burn.In the 1930s, pupils at the now demolished Blaydon Intermediate School, under the leadership of English teacher Mr Elliott and art teacher Mr Boyce, gradually developed a technique for producing hardback books. Their productions were highly respected and favourably compared to other successful private printing presses of the time. In one volume produced by the school in 1935, entitled "Songs of Enchantment", the pupils were successful in convincing the famous poet Walter de la Mare to write a foreword in which he praised their enterprise and efforts.The post war era of the late 40s and 50s saw a rapid rise in demand for electricity and, in the North East, the extension of existing and construction of a number of new power stations was seen as a key part of the solution. For the Blaydon area, this meant the arrival of a new power station at Stella Haugh, known as the South Stella Power Station, which helped to meet the energy demands of the North East until its closure in 1991. It was demolished in 1992.The House of Commons constituency seat of Blaydon is held by MP Liz Twist.The area has traditionally been a Labour stronghold and has been held by the Labour Party since 1935. The Labour candidate David Anderson received 51.5% of the vote in 2005, with the Liberal Democrat candidate, Peter Maughan, second at 37.9%.Blaydon ward elects three councillors to Gateshead Council. As of the May 2007 election, they are Malcolm Brain, Kathryn Ferdinand and Steve Ronchetti (all Labour).Modern Blaydon stands close to the Tyne with the A695, a key road from Gateshead to Hexham, passing through the town centre. Between this main road and the river is the railway and, beyond it, in a bend of the Tyne is the industrial district of Blaydon Haughs. The main part of the town lies south of the railway.Despite being a largely urban and industrial town, there are various rural aspects to Blaydon and the surrounding area. The area has many acres of open countryside mostly at or more above sea level and numerous farms and similar holdings. Between High Spen and Chopwell are large Forestry Commission woods and these and other forested areas extend down the hillside to the Derwent river which lies on the east and forms the urban district boundary.The area is also home to Shibdon Pond at the former site of Blaydon Main Colliery. Shibdon Pond is a nature reserve situated at the Eastern end of the town. Many species of waterfowl live on the pond and surrounding marshland, and a hide is available for ornithologists. English Nature has designated Shibdon Pond as one of Tyne and Wear's Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs). The subject of a regeneration campaign, Shibdon Dene (sometimes inaccurately called 'Blaydon Dene') is another recreational area consisting of a pathway between a great number of fine trees.There is also a nature reserve towards the border of Winlaton at "Blaydon Burn", mentioned earlier for mining. The burn is now a popular walking/cycling track for locals which occupies a disused railway line, the tracks of which have long since been removed. However, portions of buildings and platforms still remain. The track is roughly a mile-and-a-half long and ends near the Path Head Watermill.Blaydon contains the following districts, some of them have been swallowed up by urban sprawl.*Blaydon town centre*Blaydon Haughs*South Blaydon (Winlaton)*Axwell Park*ShibdonStella and Winlaton Mill are outer suburbs of the town, as they are not within Blaydon's boundaries but are nearby.Blaydon had a population of 15,155 in the 2011 census, which increased from 14,648 a decade earlier.Once the powerhouse of the Industrial Revolution in Gateshead, Blaydon's traditional industry was coal mining. However, since the decline of mining in the 1950s and 1960s, the economy has diversified. As well as a small number of commuting professionals, residents of Blaydon are often involved in engineering and manufacturing with many businesses operating from premises in Blaydon Haughs (or 'The Spike'), on the banks of the River Tyne.Blaydon was for a time the head office of Associated Cooperative Creameries (later renamed ACC then ACC Milk). ACC Milk was sold to Dairy Farmers of Britain in 2004. On 3 June 2009, Dairy Farmers of Britain went into receivership and the dairy in Chainbridge Road closed shortly afterwards with the loss of 300 jobs. In 2010 the dairy was acquired by Medina Dairies and reopened, but closed again just a year later.Blaydon has a shopping centre, known locally as the precinct. A brutalist 1970s creation, it contains the town's major shops including newsagents, Greggs, Costa, Iceland (supermarket), B & M, Blaydon Carpets and Furnishings, Ladbrokes, Superdrug, Boots (chemist) and, at the nearby car park, a McDonald's. There are also several food and grocery outlets. The precinct underwent redevelopment in 2012-2014, with the installation of a lift, and the demolition of the Geordie Ridley pub to make way for a new Morrison's supermarket, a new day-centre and doctors' surgery, and roof-top parking. The opening of Morrison's led to the demise of the a Co-operative Group store in March 2016.The area underwent a significant programme of housing regeneration between 2009-2014 with new developments in progress at High View on the Winlaton-Blaydon border, by the riverside on the site of the former Stella South power station and at Axwell Gardens, near to the existing Axwell Park estate.Stella Hall was a large building, essentially Elizabethan in character, but with an 18th-century south front. Older sections showed mullioned windows and other Elizabethan architectural features whilst the 18th century windows and south front were the work of the architect James Paine, designer of Axwell Hall on the other side of the district. The Hall, Drawing Room and library were of Paine's design but the former Roman Catholic Chapel was older.Stella Hall has had a long history that goes back as far as 1143 when there was a nunnery on this site. The present house was built by the Tempest family, Newcastle merchants. They occupied Stella Hall for 150 years and then in 1700 it passed into the ownership (by marriage) of Lord Widdrington, a noted Jacobite. Widdrington, on 6 October 1715, invited his friends and tenants to breakfast at the hall and, after toasting the Stuarts, they all set off to join the Earl of Derwentwater and his rebels. The uprising failed and Widdrington was sentenced to death though he was later reprieved and his estate and house restored to him.In later years Garibaldi and Kossuth were among the famous people who were entertained at Stella Hall. A statue of Garibaldi was discovered some years ago in the garden of a house on the estate and the head can now be found in the entrance lobby of Blaydon library. In more modern times the hall became the home of Joseph Cowen, M.P. and owner of the Newcastle Daily Chronicle who died in 1900. The last member of this family, Jane Cowen, died in 1948 and the house was demolished in 1953.The remaining parts of Stella Hall, now known as Stella Hall Cottage, is a listed building.On the west of the town and a mile inland from the Tyne is Axwell Park, once the home of the Clavering family. Axwell Hall (also Axwell House) is a Grade II* listed mansion, built for Sir Thomas Clavering by the noted architect James Paine and completed in 1761. The last (10th) baronet died in 1893 and Axwell Hall later found use as a prisoner-of-war camp during the second world war and later as an approved school. Much of the park has been developed for residential purposes and the hall itself was, after two decades of decay, restored. There are plans to convert it to residential apartments.Blaydon is linked to Newcastle and the A1 to the east by the A695 which used to pass through the centre of the town. The A695 road now bypasses the town centre to the north through the industrial estate. The A695 links Blaydon with Hexham about to the west.Historically Blaydon was a major railway hub for both passenger and freight services, as it occupied an important geographical position in relation to Newcastle-upon-Tyne and which could be reached across the Scotswood Railway Bridge. Blaydon served as the Eastern terminus of the Newcastle and Carlisle Railway (N&CR) when the first section (to Hexham) was opened in March 1835. The current line that runs through Blaydon is the Tyne Valley Line of the National Rail network. Northern operate train services to and from Blaydon railway station; after a number of years of a very limited service, 2014 saw the restoration of a much-improved timetable.Bus services are extensive and Blaydon Bus Station is a compulsory stop for all routes operating through the town. From Blaydon it is possible to get to the major destinations of Newcastle, Hexham, MetroCentre and the Team Valley Trading Estate, as well as to the local towns of Ryton, Crawcrook, Chopwell, and Dunston. The bus station was renovated in 2009, with the installation of new stands and lighting systems in addition to real time information systems at a cost of £95,000.It has been suggested that Blaydon's location and existing transport infrastructure make it a suitable place for a Park and Ride centre, serving Newcastle and helping reduce congestion in the city. Extending the Tyne and Wear Metro along the Tyne Valley Line would also gain local support.The following are the bus services currently using Blaydon Bus Station, correct to 25 March 2013.KeyBlaydon is part of the Gateshead Local Education Authority. It is home to a number of primary schools (both faith and secular schools) including Blaydon West primary and St Joseph's, a Roman Catholic primary school. It also has St Thomas More Catholic School, a high achieving Roman Catholic secondary school which serves the Roman Catholic population of the western part of Gateshead borough.Blaydon has several churches. In Blaydon town centre, St Cuthbert's (Church of England) (opened in 1845) and St Joseph's (Roman Catholic) (opened in 1905 on the site of an earlier church) are situated opposite each other, on either side of Shibdon Road. Both are impressive structures, and the interiors still reflect the style of architecture used in their construction. Also on Shibdon Road, at the corner with Lucy Street and opposite the entrance to the roof-top car park above Morrisons, is Trinity Methodist Church.There is also a Catholic church in Stella (St Mary and Thomas Aquinas, opened 1835) .A brand new Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witnesses was opened in 2013, near Cowen Road. This was, remarkably, built by voluntary labour as Witnesses from all over the North-East donned hard hats and work gear, working under the supervision of professional builders.In Winlaton, the parish church of Winlaton opened in 1828, the Congregational church in 1829, and the Wesleyan Chapel in 1868. The latter two united to form Winlaton United Reformed-Methodist Church, but this closed in August 2015, with some members moving to join Trinity Methodist Church in Blaydon. The Primitive Methodists had opened a building in 1850, which was extended in 1895, and was later to become the Blaydon Corps of the Salvation Army; this corps closed in September 2012. St Anne's Catholic Church in Winlaton was opened in 1962.The Blaydon area is the origin of the well-known traditional song "Blaydon Races", written by local musician and showman George 'Geordie' Ridley in 1862. The town's athletic club - the Blaydon Harriers - organise a road running race (called the Blaydon Race) every year on 9 June. The route of the race follows the route outlined by Ridley in his song. The traditional starting point lies outside Balmbra's pub in Newcastle's Bigg Market, and the race follows a course along Scotswood Road before crossing the River Tyne and ultimately finishing in Blaydon town centre. Local councillors, societies and notaries have in recent years organised an annual Blaydon Festival with music, sport and arts events that coincides with the week of race day.The town's proximity to Newcastle upon Tyne, as well as links such as Geordie Ridley's Blaydon Races, has meant that most locals support Newcastle United, though there are still a few Sunderland AFC fans. Others tend to support the Borough's local team of Gateshead FC.As well as the Blaydon races, The Blaydon Harriers organise regular race meetings on the Shibdon Pond fields (and other venues) throughout the year. These are usually well-attended both by participants and spectators. The Harriers' colours are orange and black.The rugby union club, Blaydon RFC play in the English National League 2 North, the fourth tier of the English rugby union system and a high level considering the size of the town. The Crow Trees rugby ground is situated to the east of the town, in neighbouring Swalwell. Blaydon RFC play in red shirts and white shorts. The former England international Mick Skinner played for Blaydon. Their smaller but no less illustrious neighbours, Winlaton Vulcans RFC play in Durham and Northumberland Division 2 and number Ken Goodall, the former Ireland and British Lion International, as one of their former players. They play in black shirts, shorts and socks with the club badge of an arm gripping a hammer over an anvil depicting their heritage being formed from the steelworking heritage of the area.Since 2013 Blaydon has also been host to Blaydon Cycle Club, meeting weekly and throughout the week catering from novice cyclists right through to having a race team competing in local and national events.Live jazz and rock music is regularly performed at the Black Bull pub near Blaydon Bridge. Although many pubs were demolished during the refurbishment of the town in the 1970s, a number of pubs still exist in and around the precinct, along with the Staffs (formerly the Railway Staff Club). The Blaydon and District Social Club - a former working men's club - and the Blaydon House Sports and Social Club (formerly the Conservative Club), which occupied the house of the nineteenth-century Doctor Morrison, and is reputedly the oldest building in Blaydon, were both, in 2012, derelict. The Masonic Hall was closed in 2015, with Lodge meetings transferring to Ryton Masonic Hall.
